  "Oh, Romeo and Juliet! Lovely! Didn't you just love it?" She certainly didn't 
sound much like a nun. 
  "Yes. I did. I liked it a lot. There were a few things I didn't like about it, but it was 
quite moving, on the whole." 
  "What didn't you like about it? Can you remember?" To tell you the truth, it was 
sort of embarrassing, in a way, to be talking about Romeo and Juliet with her. I mean that 
play gets pretty sexy in some parts, and she was a nun and all, but she asked me, so I 
discussed it with her for a while. "Well, I'm not too crazy about Romeo and Juliet," I said. 
"I mean I like them, but--I don't know. They get pretty annoying sometimes. I mean I felt 
much sorrier when old Mercutio got killed than when Romeo and Juliet did. The think is, 
I never liked Romeo too much after Mercutio gets stabbed by that other man--Juliet's 
cousin--what's his name?" 
  "Tybalt." 
  "That's right. Tybalt," I said--I always forget that guy's name. "It was Romeo's 
fault. I mean I liked him the best in the play, old Mercutio. I don't know. All those 
Montagues and Capulets, they're all right--especially Juliet--but Mercutio, he was--it's 
hard to explain. He was very smart and entertaining and all. The thing is, it drives me 
crazy if somebody gets killed-- especially somebody very smart and entertaining and all--
and it's somebody else's fault. Romeo and Juliet, at least it was their own fault." 
  "What school do you go to?" she asked me. She probably wanted to get off the 
subject of Romeo and Juliet. 
  I told her Pencey, and she'd heard of it. She said it was a very good school. I let it 
pass, though. Then the other one, the one that taught history and government, said they'd 
better be running along. I took their check off them, but they wouldn't let me pay it. The 
one with the glasses made me give it back to her. 
  "You've been more than generous," she said. "You're a very sweet boy." She 
certainly was nice. She reminded me a little bit of old Ernest Morrow's mother, the one I 
met on the train. When she smiled, mostly. "We've enjoyed talking to you so much," she 
said. 
  I said I'd enjoyed talking to them a lot, too. I meant it, too. I'd have enjoyed it 
even more though, I think, if I hadn't been sort of afraid, the whole time I was talking to 
them, that they'd all of a sudden try to find out if I was a Catholic. Catholics are always 
trying to find out if you're a Catholic. It happens to me a lot, I know, partly because my 
last name is Irish, and most people of Irish descent are Catholics. As a matter of fact, my 
father was a Catholic once. He quit, though, when he married my mother. But Catholics 
are always trying to find out if you're a Catholic even if they don't know your last name. I 
knew this one Catholic boy, Louis Shaney, when I was at the Whooton School. He was 
the first boy I ever met there. He and I were sitting in the first two chairs outside the 
goddam infirmary, the day school opened, waiting for our physicals, and we sort of 
struck up this conversation about tennis. He was quite interested in tennis, and so was I. 
He told me he went to the Nationals at Forest Hills every summer, and I told him I did 
too, and then we talked about certain hot-shot tennis players for quite a while. He knew 
quite a lot about tennis, for a kid his age. He really did. Then, after a while, right in the 
middle of the goddam conversation, he asked me, "Did you happen to notice where the 
Catholic church is in town, by any chance?" The thing was, you could tell by the way he 
asked me that he was trying to find out if I was a Catholic. He really was. Not that he was 
prejudiced or anything, but he just wanted to know. He was enjoying the conversation 
about tennis and all, but you could tell he would've enjoyed it more if I was a Catholic 
and all. That kind of stuff drives me crazy. I'm not saying it ruined our conversation or 
anything--it didn't--but it sure as hell didn't do it any good. That's why I was glad those 
two nuns didn't ask me if I was a Catholic. It wouldn't have spoiled the conversation if 
they had, but it would've been different, probably. I'm not saying I blame Catholics. I 
don't. I'd be the same way, probably, if I was a Catholic. It's just like those suitcases I was 
telling you about, in a way. All I'm saying is that it's no good for a nice conversation. 
That's all I'm saying. 
  When they got up to go, the two nuns, I did something very stupid and 
embarrassing. I was smoking a cigarette, and when I stood up to say good-by to them, by 
mistake I blew some smoke in their face. I didn't mean to, but I did it. I apologized like a 
madman, and they were very polite and nice about it, but it was very embarrassing 
anyway. 
  After they left, I started getting sorry that I'd only given them ten bucks for their 
collection. But the thing was, I'd made that date to go to a matinee with old Sally Hayes, 
and I needed to keep some dough for the tickets and stuff. I was sorry anyway, though. 
Goddam money. It always ends up making you blue as hell. 
 
 
16 
 
  After I had my breakfast, it was only around noon, and I wasn't meeting old Sally 
till two o'clock, so I started taking this long walk. I couldn't stop thinking about those two 
nuns. I kept thinking about that beatup old straw basket they went around collecting 
money with when they weren't teaching school. I kept trying to picture my mother or 
somebody, or my aunt, or Sally Hayes's crazy mother, standing outside some department 
store and collecting dough for poor people in a beat-up old straw basket. It was hard to 
picture. Not so much my mother, but those other two. My aunt's pretty charitable--she 
does a lot of Red Cross work and all--but she's very well-dressed and all, and when she 
does anything charitable she's always very well-dressed and has lipstick on and all that 
crap. I couldn't picture her doing anything for charity if she had to wear black clothes and 
no lipstick while she was doing it. And old Sally Hayes's mother. Jesus Christ. The only 
way she could go around with a basket collecting dough would be if everybody kissed 
her ass for her when they made a contribution. If they just dropped their dough in her 
basket, then walked away without saying anything to her, ignoring her and all, she'd quit 
in about an hour. She'd get bored. She'd hand in her basket and then go someplace 
swanky for lunch. That's what I liked about those nuns. You could tell, for one thing, that 
they never went anywhere swanky for lunch. It made me so damn sad when I thought 
about it, their never going anywhere swanky for lunch or anything. I knew it wasn't too 
important, but it made me sad anyway. 
  I started walking over toward Broadway, just for the hell of it, because I hadn't 
been over there in years. Besides, I wanted to find a record store that was open on 
Sunday. There was this record I wanted to get for Phoebe, called "Little Shirley Beans." 
It was a very hard record to get. It was about a little kid that wouldn't go out of the house 
because two of her front teeth were out and she was ashamed to. I heard it at Pencey. A 
boy that lived on the next floor had it, and I tried to buy it off him because I knew it 
would knock old Phoebe out, but he wouldn't sell it. It was a very old, terrific record that 
this colored girl singer, Estelle Fletcher, made about twenty years ago. She sings it very 
Dixieland and whorehouse, and it doesn't sound at all mushy. If a white girl was singing 
it, she'd make it sound cute as hell, but old Estelle Fletcher knew what the hell she was 
doing, and it was one of the best records I ever heard. I figured I'd buy it in some store 
that was open on Sunday and then I'd take it up to the park with me. It was Sunday and 
Phoebe goes rollerskating in the park on Sundays quite frequently. I knew where she 
hung out mostly. 
  It wasn't as cold as it was the day before, but the sun still wasn't out, and it wasn't 
too nice for walking. But there was one nice thing. This family that you could tell just 
came out of some church were walking right in front of me--a father, a mother, and a 
little kid about six years old. They looked sort of poor. The father had on one of those 
pearl-gray hats that poor guys wear a lot when they want to look sharp. He and his wife 
were just walking along, talking, not paying any attention to their kid. The kid was swell. 
He was walking in the street, instead of on the sidewalk, but right next to the curb. He 
was making out like he was walking a very straight line, the way kids do, and the whole 
time he kept singing and humming. I got up closer so I could hear what he was singing. 
He was singing that song, "If a body catch a body coming through the rye." He had a 
pretty little voice, too. He was just singing for the hell of it, you could tell. The cars 
zoomed by, brakes screeched all over the place, his parents paid no attention to him, and 
he kept on walking next to the curb and singing "If a body catch a body coming through 
the rye." It made me feel better. It made me feel not so depressed any more. 
  Broadway was mobbed and messy. It was Sunday, and only about twelve o'clock, 
but it was mobbed anyway. Everybody was on their way to the movies--the Paramount or 
the Astor or the Strand or the Capitol or one of those crazy places. Everybody was all 
dressed up, because it was Sunday, and that made it worse. But the worst part was that 
you could tell they all wanted to go to the movies. I couldn't stand looking at them. I can 
understand somebody going to the movies because there's nothing else to do, but when 
somebody really wants to go, and even walks fast so as to get there quicker, then it 
depresses hell out of me. Especially if I see millions of people standing in one of those 
long, terrible lines, all the way down the block, waiting with this terrific patience for seats 
and all. Boy, I couldn't get off that goddam Broadway fast enough. I was lucky. The first 
record store I went into had a copy of "Little Shirley Beans." They charged me five bucks 
for it, because it was so hard to get, but I didn't care. Boy, it made me so happy all of a 
sudden. I could hardly wait to get to the park to see if old Phoebe was around so that I 
could give it to her. 
  When I came out of the record store, I passed this drugstore, and I went in. I 
figured maybe I'd give old Jane a buzz and see if she was home for vacation yet. So I 
went in a phone booth and called her up. The only trouble was, her mother answered the 
phone, so I had to hang up. I didn't feel like getting involved in a long conversation and 
all with her. I'm not crazy about talking to girls' mothers on the phone anyway. I 
should've at least asked her if Jane was home yet, though. It wouldn't have killed me. But 
I didn't feel like it. You really have to be in the mood for that stuff. 
  I still had to get those damn theater tickets, so I bought a paper and looked up to 
see what shows were playing. On account of it was Sunday, there were only about three 
shows playing. So what I did was, I went over and bought two orchestra seats for I Know 
My Love. It was a benefit performance or something. I didn't much want to see it, but I 
knew old Sally, the queen of the phonies, would start drooling all over the place when I 
told her I had tickets for that, because the Lunts were in it and all. She liked shows that 
are supposed to be very sophisticated and dry and all, with the Lunts and all. I don't. I 
don't like any shows very much, if you want to know the truth. They're not as bad as 
movies, but they're certainly nothing to rave about. In the first place, I hate actors. They 
never act like people. They just think they do. Some of the good ones do, in a very slight 
way, but not in a way that's fun to watch. And if any actor's really good, you can always 
tell he knows he's good, and that spoils it. You take Sir Laurence Olivier, for example. I 
saw him in Hamlet. D.B. took Phoebe and I to see it last year. He treated us to lunch first, 
and then he took us. He'd already seen it, and the way he talked about it at lunch, I was 
anxious as hell to see it, too. But I didn't enjoy it much. I just don't see what's so 
marvelous about Sir Laurence Olivier, that's all. He has a terrific voice, and he's a helluva 
handsome guy, and he's very nice to watch when he's walking or dueling or something, 
but he wasn't at all the way D.B. said Hamlet was. He was too much like a goddam 
general, instead of a sad, screwed-up type guy. The best part in the whole picture was 
when old Ophelia's brother--the one that gets in the duel with Hamlet at the very end--
was going away and his father was giving him a lot of advice. While the father kept 
giving him a lot of advice, old Ophelia was sort of horsing around with her brother, 
taking his dagger out of the holster, and teasing him and all while he was trying to look 
interested in the bull his father was shooting. That was nice. I got a big bang out of that. 
But you don't see that kind of stuff much. The only thing old Phoebe liked was when 
Hamlet patted this dog on the head. She thought that was funny and nice, and it was. 
What I'll have to do is, I'll have to read that play. The trouble with me is, I always have to 
read that stuff by myself. If an actor acts it out, I hardly listen. I keep worrying about 
whether he's going to do something phony every minute. 
  After I got the tickets to the Lunts' show, I took a cab up to the park. I should've 
taken a subway or something, because I was getting slightly low on dough, but I wanted 
to get off that damn Broadway as fast as I could. 
  It was lousy in the park. It wasn't too cold, but the sun still wasn't out, and there 
didn't look like there was anything in the park except dog crap and globs of spit and cigar 
butts from old men, and the benches all looked like they'd be wet if you sat down on 
them. It made you depressed, and every once in a while, for no reason, you got goose 
flesh while you walked. It didn't seem at all like Christmas was coming soon. It didn't 
seem like anything was coming. But I kept walking over to the Mall anyway, because 
that's where Phoebe usually goes when she's in the park. She likes to skate near the 
bandstand. It's funny. That's the same place I used to like to skate when I was a kid. 
  When I got there, though, I didn't see her around anywhere. There were a few kids 
around, skating and all, and two boys were playing Flys Up with a soft ball, but no 
Phoebe. I saw one kid about her age, though, sitting on a bench all by herself, tightening 
her skate. I thought maybe she might know Phoebe and could tell me where she was or 
something, so I went over and sat down next to her and asked her, "Do you know Phoebe 
Caulfield, by any chance?" 
  "Who?" she said. All she had on was jeans and about twenty sweaters. You could 
tell her mother made them for her, because they were lumpy as hell. 
  "Phoebe Caulfield. She lives on Seventy-first Street. She's in the fourth grade, 
over at--" 
  "You know Phoebe?" 
  "Yeah, I'm her brother. You know where she is?" 
  "She's in Miss Callon's class, isn't she?" the kid said. 
  "I don't know. Yes, I think she is." 
  "She's prob'ly in the museum, then. We went last Saturday," the kid said. 
  "Which museum?" I asked her. 
  She shrugged her shoulders, sort of. "I don't know," she said. "The museum." 
  "I know, but the one where the pictures are, or the one where the Indians are?" 
  "The one where the Indians." 
  "Thanks a lot," I said. I got up and started to go, but  then I suddenly remembered 
it was Sunday. "This is Sunday," I told the kid. 
  She looked up at me. "Oh. Then she isn't." 
  She was having a helluva time tightening her skate. She didn't have any gloves on 
or anything and her hands were all red and cold. I gave her a hand with it. Boy, I hadn't 
had a skate key in my hand for years. It didn't feel funny, though. You could put a skate 
key in my hand fifty years from now, in pitch dark, and I'd still know what it is. She 
thanked me and all when I had it tightened for her. She was a very nice, polite little kid. 
God, I love it when a kid's nice and polite when you tighten their skate for them or 
something. Most kids are. They really are. I asked her if she'd care to have a hot 
chocolate or something with me, but she said no, thank you. She said she had to meet her 
friend. Kids always have to meet their friend. That kills me. 
  Even though it was Sunday and Phoebe wouldn't be there with her class or 
anything, and even though it was so damp and lousy out, I walked all the way through the 
park over to the Museum of Natural History. I knew that was the museum the kid with 
the skate key meant. I knew that whole museum routine like a book. Phoebe went to the 
same school I went to when I was a kid, and we used to go there all the time. We had this 
teacher, Miss Aigletinger, that took us there damn near every Saturday. Sometimes we 
looked at the animals and sometimes we looked at the stuff the Indians had made in 
ancient times. Pottery and straw baskets and all stuff like that. I get very happy when I 
think about it. Even now. I remember after we looked at all the Indian stuff, usually we 
went to see some movie in this big auditorium. Columbus. They were always showing 
Columbus discovering America, having one helluva time getting old Ferdinand and 
Isabella to lend him the dough to buy ships with, and then the sailors mutinying on him 
and all. Nobody gave too much of a damn about old Columbus, but you always had a lot 
of candy and gum and stuff with you, and the inside of that auditorium had such a nice 
smell. It always smelled like it was raining outside, even if it wasn't, and you were in the 
only nice, dry, cosy place in the world. I loved that damn museum. I remember you had 
to go through the Indian Room to get to the auditorium. It was a long, long room, and you 
were only supposed to whisper. The teacher would go first, then the class. You'd be two 
rows of kids, and you'd have a partner. Most of the time my partner was this girl named 
Gertrude Levine. She always wanted to hold your hand, and her hand was always sticky 
or sweaty or something. The floor was all stone, and if you had some marbles in your 
hand and you dropped them, they bounced like madmen all over the floor and made a 
helluva racket, and the teacher would hold up the class and go back and see what the hell 
was going on. She never got sore, though, Miss Aigletinger. Then you'd pass by this long, 
long Indian war canoe, about as long as three goddam Cadillacs in a row, with about 
twenty Indians in it, some of them paddling, some of them just standing around looking 
tough, and they all had war paint all over their faces. There was one very spooky guy in 
the back of the canoe, with a mask on. He was the witch doctor. He gave me the creeps, 
but I liked him anyway. Another thing, if you touched one of the paddles or anything 
while you were passing, one of the guards would say to you, "Don't touch anything, 
children," but he always said it in a nice voice, not like a goddam cop or anything. Then 
you'd pass by this big glass case, with Indians inside it rubbing sticks together to make a 
fire, and a squaw weaving a blanket. The squaw that was weaving the blanket was sort of 
bending over, and you could see her bosom and all. We all used to sneak a good look at 
it, even the girls, because they were only little kids and they didn't have any more bosom 
than we did. Then, just before you went inside the auditorium, right near the doors, you 
passed this Eskimo. He was sitting over a hole in this icy lake, and he was fishing 
through it. He had about two fish right next to the hole, that he'd already caught. Boy, that 
museum was full of glass cases. There were even more upstairs, with deer inside them 
drinking at water holes, and birds flying south for the winter. The birds nearest you were 
all stuffed and hung up on wires, and the ones in back were just painted on the wall, but 
they all looked like they were really flying south, and if you bent your head down and 
sort of looked at them upside down, they looked in an even bigger hurry to fly south. The 
best thing, though, in that museum was that everything always stayed right where it was. 
Nobody'd move. You could go there a hundred thousand times, and that Eskimo would 
still be just finished catching those two fish, the birds would still be on their way south, 
the deers would still be drinking out of that water hole, with their pretty antlers and their 
pretty, skinny legs, and that squaw with the naked bosom would still be weaving that 
same blanket. Nobody'd be different. The only thing that would be different would be 
you. Not that you'd be so much older or anything. It wouldn't be that, exactly. You'd just 
be different, that's all. You'd have an overcoat on this time. Or the kid that was your 
partner in line the last time had got scarlet fever and you'd have a new partner. Or you'd 
have a substitute taking the class, instead of Miss Aigletinger. Or you'd heard your 
mother and father having a terrific fight in the bathroom. Or you'd just passed by one of 
those puddles in the street with gasoline rainbows in them. I mean you'd be different in 
some way--I can't explain what I mean. And even if I could, I'm not sure I'd feel like it. 
  I took my old hunting hat out of my pocket while I walked, and put it on. I knew I 
wouldn't meet anybody that knew me, and it was pretty damp out. I kept walking and 
walking, and I kept thinking about old Phoebe going to that museum on Saturdays the 
way I used to. I thought how she'd see the same stuff I used to see, and how she'd be 
different every time she saw it. It didn't exactly depress me to think about it, but it didn't 
make me feel gay as hell, either. Certain things they should stay the way they are. You 
ought to be able to stick them in one of those big glass cases and just leave them alone. I 
know that's impossible, but it's too bad anyway. Anyway, I kept thinking about all that 
while I walked. 
  I passed by this playground and stopped and watched a couple of very tiny kids 
on a seesaw. One of them was sort of fat, and I put my hand on the skinny kid's end, to 
sort of even up the weight, but you could tell they didn't want me around, so I let them 
alone. 
  Then a funny thing happened. When I got to the museum, all of a sudden I 
wouldn't have gone inside for a million bucks. It just didn't appeal to me--and here I'd 
walked through the whole goddam park and looked forward to it and all. If Phoebe'd been 
there, I probably would have, but she wasn't. So all I did, in front of the museum, was get 
a cab and go down to the Biltmore. I didn't feel much like going. I'd made that damn date 
with Sally, though. 
 
 
17 
 
  I was way early when I got there, so I just sat down on one of those leather 
couches right near the clock in the lobby and watched the girls. A lot of schools were 
home for vacation already, and there were about a million girls sitting and standing 
around waiting for their dates to show up. Girls with their legs crossed, girls with their 
legs not crossed, girls with terrific legs, girls with lousy legs, girls that looked like swell 
girls, girls that looked like they'd be bitches if you knew them. It was really nice 
sightseeing, if you know what I mean. In a way, it was sort of depressing, too, because 
you kept wondering what the hell would happen to all of them. When they got out of 
school and college, I mean. You figured most of them would probably marry dopey guys. 
Guys that always talk about how many miles they get to a gallon in their goddam cars. 
Guys that get sore and childish as hell if you beat them at golf, or even just some stupid 
game like ping-pong. Guys that are very mean. Guys that never read books. Guys that are 
very boring--But I have to be careful about that. I mean about calling certain guys bores. I 
don't understand boring guys. I really don't. When I was at Elkton Hills, I roomed for 
about two months with this boy, Harris Mackim. He was very intelligent and all, but he 
was one of the biggest bores I ever met. He had one of these very raspy voices, and he 
never stopped talking, practically. He never stopped talking, and what was awful was, he 
never said anything you wanted to hear in the first place. But he could do one thing. The 
sonuvabitch could whistle better than anybody I ever heard. He'd be making his bed, or 
hanging up stuff in the closet--he was always hanging up stuff in the closet--it drove me 
crazy--and he'd be whistling while he did it, if he wasn't talking in this raspy voice. He 
could even whistle classical stuff, but most of the time he just whistled jazz. He could 
take something very jazzy, like "Tin Roof Blues," and whistle it so nice and easy--right 
while he was hanging stuff up in the closet--that it could kill you.  Naturally, I never told 
him I thought he was a terrific whistler. I mean you don't just go up to somebody and say, 
"You're a terrific whistler." But I roomed with him for about two whole months, even 
though he bored me till I was half crazy, just because he was such a terrific whistler, the 
best I ever heard. So I don't know about bores. Maybe you shouldn't feel too sorry if you 
see some swell girl getting married to them. They don't hurt anybody, most of them, and 
maybe they're secretly all terrific whistlers or something. Who the hell knows? Not me. 
  Finally, old Sally started coming up the stairs, and I started down to meet her. She 
looked terrific. She really did. She had on this black coat and sort of a black beret. She 
hardly ever wore a hat, but that beret looked nice. The funny part is, I felt like marrying 
her the minute I saw her. I'm crazy. I didn't even like her much, and yet all of a sudden I 
felt like I was in love with her and wanted to marry her. I swear to God I'm crazy. I admit 
it. 
  "Holden!" she said. "It's marvelous to see you! It's been ages." She had one of 
these very loud, embarrassing voices when you met her somewhere. She got away with it 
because she was so damn good-looking, but it always gave me a pain in the ass. 
  "Swell to see you," I said. I meant it, too. "How are ya, anyway?" 
  "Absolutely marvelous. Am I late?" 
  I told her no, but she was around ten minutes late, as a matter of fact. I didn't give 
a damn, though. All that crap they have in cartoons in the Saturday Evening Post and all, 
showing guys on street corners looking sore as hell because their dates are late--that's 
bunk. If a girl looks swell when she meets you, who gives a damn if she's late? Nobody. 
"We better hurry," I said. "The show starts at two-forty." We started going down the 
stairs to where the taxis are. 
  "What are we going to see?" she said. 
  "I don't know. The Lunts. It's all I could get tickets for."  
  "The Lunts! Oh, marvelous!" I told you she'd go mad when she heard it was for 
the Lunts. 
  We horsed around a little bit in the cab on the way over to the theater. At first she 
didn't want to, because she had her lipstick on and all, but I was being seductive as hell 
and she didn't have any alternative. Twice, when the goddam cab stopped short in traffic, 
I damn near fell off the seat. Those damn drivers never even look where they're going, I 
swear they don't. Then, just to show you how crazy I am, when we were coming out of 
this big clinch, I told her I loved her and all. It was a lie, of course, but the thing is, I 
meant it when I said it. I'm crazy. I swear to God I am. 
  "Oh, darling, I love you too," she said. Then, right in the same damn breath, she 
said, "Promise me you'll let your hair grow. Crew cuts are getting corny. And your hair's 
so lovely." 
  Lovely my ass. 
  The show wasn't as bad as some I've seen. It was on the crappy side, though. It 
was about five hundred thousand years in the life of this one old couple. It starts out when 
they're young and all, and the girl's parents don't want her to marry the boy, but she 
marries him anyway. Then they keep getting older and older. The husband goes to war, 
and the wife has this brother that's a drunkard. I couldn't get very interested. I mean I 
didn't care too much when anybody in the family died or anything. They were all just a 
bunch of actors. The husband and wife were a pretty nice old couple--very witty and all--
but I couldn't get too interested in them. For one thing, they kept drinking tea or some 
goddam thing all through the play. Every time you saw them, some butler was shoving 
some tea in front of them, or the wife was pouring it for somebody. And everybody kept 
coming in and going out all the time--you got dizzy watching people sit down and stand 
up. Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne were the old couple, and they were very good, but I 
didn't like them much. They were different, though, I'll say that. They didn't act like 
people and they didn't act like actors. It's hard to explain. They acted more like they knew 
they were celebrities and all. I mean they were good, but they were too good. When one 
of them got finished making a speech, the other one said something very fast right after it. 
It was supposed to be like people really talking and interrupting each other and all. The 
trouble was, it was too much like people talking and interrupting each other. They acted a 
little bit the way old Ernie, down in the Village, plays the piano. If you do something too 
good, then, after a while, if you don't watch it, you start showing off. And then you're not 
as good any more. But anyway, they were the only ones in the show--the Lunts, I mean--
that looked like they had any real brains. I have to admit it. 
  At the end of the first act we went out with all the other jerks for a cigarette. What 
a deal that was. You never saw so many phonies in all your life, everybody smoking their 
ears off and talking about the play so that everybody could hear and know how sharp they 
were. Some dopey movie actor was standing near us, having a cigarette. I don't know his 
name, but he always plays the part of a guy in a war movie that gets yellow before it's 
time to go over the top. He was with some gorgeous blonde, and the two of them were 
trying to be very blasé and all, like as if he didn't even know people were looking at him. 
Modest as hell. I got a big bang out of it. Old Sally didn't talk much, except to rave about 
the Lunts, because she was busy rubbering and being charming. Then all of a sudden, she 
saw some jerk she knew on the other side of the lobby. Some guy in one of those very 
dark gray flannel suits and one of those checkered vests. Strictly Ivy League. Big deal. 
He was standing next to the wall, smoking himself to death and looking bored as hell. 
Old Sally kept saying, "I know that boy from somewhere." She always knew somebody, 
any place you took her, or thought she did. She kept saying that till I got bored as hell, 
and I said to her, "Why don't you go on over and give him a big soul kiss, if you know 
him? He'll enjoy it." She got sore when I said that. Finally, though, the jerk noticed her 
and came over and said hello. You should've seen the way they said hello. You'd have 
thought they hadn't seen each other in twenty years. You'd have thought they'd taken 
baths in the same bathtub or something when they were little kids. Old buddyroos. It was 
nauseating. The funny part was, they probably met each other just once, at some phony 
party. Finally, when they were all done slobbering around, old Sally introduced us. His 
name was George something--I don't even remember--and he went to Andover. Big, big 
deal. You should've seen him when old Sally asked him how he liked the play. He was 
the kind of a phony that have to give themselves room when they answer somebody's 
question. He stepped back, and stepped right on the lady's foot behind him. He probably 
broke every toe in her body. He said the play itself was no masterpiece, but that the 
Lunts, of course, were absolute angels. Angels. For Chrissake. Angels. That killed me. 
Then he and old Sally started talking about a lot of people they both knew. It was the 
phoniest conversation you ever heard in your life. They both kept thinking of places as 
fast as they could, then they'd think of somebody that lived there and mention their name. 
I was all set to puke when it was time to go sit down again. I really was. And then, when 
the next act was over, they continued their goddam boring conversation. They kept 
thinking of more places and more names of people that lived there. The worst part was, 
the jerk had one of those very phony, Ivy League voices, one of those very tired, snobby 
voices. He sounded just like a girl. He didn't hesitate to horn in on my date, the bastard. I 
even thought for a minute that he was going to get in the goddam cab with us when the 
show was over, because he walked about two blocks with us, but he had to meet a bunch 
of phonies for cocktails, he said. I could see them all sitting around in some bar, with 
their goddam checkered vests, criticizing shows and books and women in those tired, 
snobby voices. They kill me, those guys. 
  I sort of hated old Sally by the time we got in the cab, after listening to that phony 
Andover bastard for about ten hours. I was all set to take her home and all--I really was--
but she said, "I have a marvelous idea!" She was always having a marvelous idea. 
"Listen," she said. "What time do you have to be home for dinner? I mean are you in a 
terrible hurry or anything? Do you have to be home any special time?" 
  "Me? No. No special time," I said. Truer word was never spoken, boy. "Why?" 
  "Let's go ice-skating at Radio City!" 
  That's the kind of ideas she always had. 
  "Ice-skating at Radio City? You mean right now?" 
  "Just for an hour or so. Don't you want to? If you don't want to--" 
  "I didn't say I didn't want to," I said. "Sure. If you want to." 
  "Do you mean it? Don't just say it if you don't mean it. I mean I don't give a darn, 
one way or the other." 
  Not much she didn't. 
  "You can rent those darling little skating skirts," old Sally said. "Jeannette Cultz 
did it last week." 
  That's why she was so hot to go. She wanted to see herself in one of those little 
skirts that just come down over their butt and all. 
  So we went, and after they gave us our skates, they gave Sally this little blue butt-
twitcher of a dress to wear. She really did look damn good in it, though. I save to admit it. 
And don't think she didn't know it. The kept walking ahead of me, so that I'd see how 
cute her little ass looked. It did look pretty cute, too. I have to admit it. 
  The funny part was, though, we were the worst skaters on the whole goddam rink. 
I mean the worst. And there were some lulus, too. Old Sally's ankles kept bending in till 
they were practically on the ice. They not only looked stupid as hell, but they probably 
hurt like hell, too. I know mine did. Mine were killing me. We must've looked gorgeous. 
And what made it worse, there were at least a couple of hundred rubbernecks that didn't 
have anything better to do than stand around and watch everybody falling all over 
themselves. 
  "Do you want to get a table inside and have a drink or something?" I said to her 
finally. 
  "That's the most marvelous idea you've had all day," the said. She was killing 
herself. It was brutal. I really felt sorry for her. 
  We took off our goddam skates and went inside this bar where you can get drinks 
and watch the skaters in just your stocking feet. As soon as we sat down, old Sally took 
off her gloves, and I gave her a cigarette. She wasn't looking too happy. The waiter came 
up, and I ordered a Coke for her--she didn't drink--and a Scotch and soda for myself, but 
the sonuvabitch wouldn't bring me one, so I had a Coke, too. Then I sort of started 
lighting matches. I do that quite a lot when I'm in a certain mood. I sort of let them burn 
down till I can't hold them any more, then I drop them in the ashtray. It's a nervous habit. 
  Then all of a sudden, out of a clear blue sky, old Sally said, "Look. I have to 
know. Are you or aren't you coming over to help me trim the tree Christmas Eve? I have 
to know." She was still being snotty on account of her ankles when she was skating. 
  "I wrote you I would. You've asked me that about twenty times. Sure, I am." 
  "I mean I have to know," she said. She started looking all around the goddam 
room. 
  All of a sudden I quit lighting matches, and sort of leaned nearer to her over the 
table. I had quite a few topics on my mind. "Hey, Sally," I said. 
  "What?" she said. She was looking at some girl on the other side of the room. 
  "Did you ever get fed up?" I said. "I mean did you ever get scared that everything 
was going to go lousy unless you did something? I mean do you like school, and all that 
stuff?" 
  "It's a terrific bore." 
  "I mean do you hate it? I know it's a terrific bore, but do you hate it, is what I 
mean." 
  "Well, I don't exactly hate it. You always have to--" 
  "Well, I hate it. Boy, do I hate it," I said. "But it isn't just that. It's everything. I 
hate living in New York and all. Taxicabs, and Madison Avenue buses, with the drivers 
and all always yelling at you to get out at the rear door, and being introduced to phony 
guys that call the Lunts angels, and going up and down in elevators when you just want to 
go outside, and guys fitting your pants all the time at Brooks, and people always--" 
  "Don't shout, please," old Sally said. Which was very funny, because I wasn't 
even shouting. 
  "Take cars," I said. I said it in this very quiet voice. "Take most people, they're 
crazy about cars. They worry if they get a little scratch on them, and they're always 
talking about how many miles they get to a gallon, and if they get a brand-new car 
already they start thinking about trading it in for one that's even newer. I don't even like 
old cars. I mean they don't even interest me. I'd rather have a goddam horse. A horse is at 
least human, for God's sake. A horse you can at least--" 
  "I don't know what you're even talking about," old Sally said. "You jump from 
one--" 
  "You know something?" I said. "You're probably the only reason I'm in New 
York right now, or anywhere. If you weren't around, I'd probably be someplace way the 
hell off. In the woods or some goddam place. You're the only reason I'm around, 
practically." 
  "You're sweet," she said. But you could tell she wanted me to change the damn 
subject. 
  "You ought to go to a boys' school sometime. Try it sometime," I said. "It's full of 
phonies, and all you do is study so that you can learn enough to be smart enough to be 
able to buy a goddam Cadillac some day, and you have to keep making believe you give 
a damn if the football team loses, and all you do is talk about girls and liquor and sex all 
day, and everybody sticks together in these dirty little goddam cliques. The guys that are 
on the basketball team stick together, the Catholics stick together, the goddam 
intellectuals stick together, the guys that play bridge stick together. Even the guys that 
belong to the goddam Book-of-the-Month Club stick together. If you try to have a little 
intelligent--" 
  "Now, listen," old Sally said. "Lots of boys get more out of school than that." 
  "I agree! I agree they do, some of them! But that's all I get out of it. See? That's 
my point. That's exactly my goddam point," I said. "I don't get hardly anything out of 
anything. I'm in bad shape. I'm in lousy shape." 
  "You certainly are." 
  Then, all of a sudden, I got this idea. 
  "Look," I said. "Here's my idea. How would you like to get the hell out of here? 
Here's my idea. I know this guy down in Greenwich Village that we can borrow his car 
for a couple of weeks. He used to go to the same school I did and he still owes me ten 
bucks. What we could do is, tomorrow morning we could drive up to Massachusetts and 
Vermont, and all around there, see. It's beautiful as hell up there, It really is." I was 
getting excited as hell, the more I thought of it, and I sort of reached over and took old 
Sally's goddam hand. What a goddam fool I was. "No kidding," I said. "I have about a 
hundred and eighty bucks in the bank. I can take it out when it opens in the morning, and 
then I could go down and get this guy's car. No kidding. We'll stay in these cabin camps 
and stuff like that till the dough runs out. Then, when the dough runs out, I could get a 
job somewhere and we could live somewhere with a brook and all and, later on, we could 
get married or something. I could chop all our own wood in the wintertime and all. 
Honest to God, we could have a terrific time! Wuddaya say? C'mon! Wuddaya say? Will 
you do it with me? Please!" 
  "You can't just do something like that," old Sally said. She sounded sore as hell. 
  "Why not? Why the hell not?" 
  "Stop screaming at me, please," she said. Which was crap, because I wasn't even 
screaming at her. 
  "Why can'tcha? Why not?" 
  "Because you can't, that's all. In the first place, we're both practically children. 
And did you ever stop to think what you'd do if you didn't get a job when your money ran 
out? We'd starve to death. The whole thing's so fantastic, it isn't even--" 
  "It isn't fantastic. I'd get a job. Don't worry about that. You don't have to worry 
about that. What's the matter? Don't you want to go with me? Say so, if you don't." 
  "It isn't that. It isn't that at all," old Sally said. I was beginning to hate her, in a 
way. "We'll have oodles of time to do those things--all those things. I mean after you go 
to college and all, and if we should get married and all. There'll be oodles of marvelous 
places to go to. You're just--" 
  "No, there wouldn't be. There wouldn't be oodles of places to go to at all. It'd be 
entirely different," I said. I was getting depressed as hell again. 
  "What?" she said. "I can't hear you. One minute you scream at me, and the next 
you--" 
  "I said no, there wouldn't be marvelous places to go to after I went to college and 
all. Open your ears. It'd be entirely different. We'd have to go downstairs in elevators 
with suitcases and stuff. We'd have to phone up everybody and tell 'em good-by and send 
'em postcards from hotels and all. And I'd be working in some office, making a lot of 
dough, and riding to work in cabs and Madison Avenue buses, and reading newspapers, 
and playing bridge all the time, and going to the movies and seeing a lot of stupid shorts 
and coming attractions and newsreels. Newsreels. Christ almighty. There's always a 
dumb horse race, and some dame breaking a bottle over a ship, and some chimpanzee 
riding a goddam bicycle with pants on. It wouldn't be the same at all. You don't see what 
I mean at all." 
  "Maybe I don't! Maybe you don't, either," old Sally said. We both hated each 
other's guts by that time. You could see there wasn't any sense trying to have an 
intelligent conversation. I was sorry as hell I'd started it. 
  "C'mon, let's get outa here," I said. "You give me a royal pain in the ass, if you 
want to know the truth." 
  Boy, did she hit the ceiling when I said that. I know I shouldn't've said it, and I 
probably wouldn't've ordinarily, but she was depressing the hell out of me. Usually I 
never say crude things like that to girls. Boy, did she hit the ceiling. I apologized like a 
madman, but she wouldn't accept my apology. She was even crying. Which scared me a 
little bit, because I was a little afraid she'd go home and tell her father I called her a pain 
in the ass. Her father was one of those big silent bastards, and he wasn't too crazy about 
me anyhow. He once told old Sally I was too goddam noisy. 
  "No kidding. I'm sorry," I kept telling her. 
  "You're sorry. You're sorry. That's very funny," she said. She was still sort of 
crying, and all of a sudden I did feel sort of sorry I'd said it. 
  "C'mon, I'll take ya home. No kidding." 
  "I can go home by myself, thank you. If you think I'd let you take me home, 
you're mad. No boy ever said that to me in my entire life." 
  The whole thing was sort of funny, in a way, if you thought about it, and all of a 
sudden I did something I shouldn't have. I laughed. And I have one of these very loud, 
stupid laughs. I mean if I ever sat behind myself in a movie or something, I'd probably 
lean over and tell myself to please shut up. It made old Sally madder than ever. 
  I stuck around for a while, apologizing and trying to get her to excuse me, but she 
wouldn't. She kept telling me to go away and leave her alone. So finally I did it. I went 
inside and got my shoes and stuff, and left without her. I shouldn't've, but I was pretty 
goddam fed up by that time. 
  If you want to know the truth, I don't even know why I started all that stuff with 
her. I mean about going away somewhere, to Massachusetts and Vermont and all. I 
probably wouldn't've taken her even if she'd wanted to go with me. She wouldn't have 
been anybody to go with. The terrible part, though, is that I meant it when I asked her. 
That's the terrible part. I swear to God I'm a madman. 
 
 
18 
 
  When I left the skating rink I felt sort of hungry, so I went in this drugstore and 
had a Swiss cheese sandwich and a malted, and then I went in a phone booth. I thought 
maybe I might give old Jane another buzz and see if she was home yet. I mean I had the 
whole evening free, and I thought I'd give her a buzz and, if she was home yet, take her 
dancing or something somewhere. I never danced with her or anything the whole time I 
knew her. I saw her dancing once, though. She looked like a very good dancer. It was at 
this Fourth of July dance at the club. I didn't know her too well then, and I didn't think I 
ought to cut in on her date. She was dating this terrible guy, Al Pike, that went to Choate. 
I didn't know him too well, but he was always hanging around the swimming pool. He 
wore those white Lastex kind of swimming trunks, and he was always going off the high 
dive. He did the same lousy old half gainer all day long. It was the only dive he could do, 
but he thought he was very hot stuff. All muscles and no brains. Anyway, that's who Jane 
dated that night. I couldn't understand it. I swear I couldn't. After we started going around 
together, I asked her how come she could date a showoff bastard like Al Pike. Jane said 
he wasn't a show-off. She said he had an inferiority complex. She acted like she felt sorry 
for him or something, and she wasn't just putting it on. She meant it. It's a funny thing 
about girls. Every time you mention some guy that's strictly a bastard--very mean, or very 
conceited and all--and when you mention it to the girl, she'll tell you he has an inferiority 
complex. Maybe he has, but that still doesn't keep him from being a bastard, in my 
opinion. Girls. You never know what they're going to think. I once got this girl Roberta 
Walsh's roommate a date with a friend of mine. His name was Bob Robinson and he 
really had an inferiority complex. You could tell he was very ashamed of his parents and 
all, because they said "he don't" and "she don't" and stuff like that and they weren't very 
wealthy. But he wasn't a bastard or anything. He was a very nice guy. But this Roberta 
Walsh's roommate didn't like him at all. She told Roberta he was too conceited--and the 
reason she thought he was conceited was because he happened to mention to her that he 
was captain of the debating team. A little thing like that, and she thought he was 
conceited! The trouble with girls is, if they like a boy, no matter how big a bastard he is, 
they'll say he has an inferiority complex, and if they don't like him, no matter how nice a 
guy he is, or how big an inferiority complex he has, they'll say he's conceited. Even smart 
girls do it. 
  Anyway, I gave old Jane a buzz again, but her phone didn't answer, so I had to 
hang up. Then I had to look through my address book to see who the hell might be 
available for the evening. The trouble was, though, my address book only has about three 
people in it. Jane, and this man, Mr. Antolini, that was my teacher at Elkton Hills, and my 
father's office number. I keep forgetting to put people's names in. So what I did finally, I 
gave old Carl Luce a buzz. He graduated from the Whooton School after I left. He was 
about three years older than I was, and I didn't like him too much, but he was one of these 
very intellectual guys-- he had the highest I.Q. of any boy at Whooton--and I thought he 
might want to have dinner with me somewhere and have a slightly intellectual 
conversation. He was very enlightening sometimes. So I gave him a buzz. He went to 
Columbia now, but he lived on 65th Street and all, and I knew he'd be home. When I got 
him on the phone, he said he couldn't make it for dinner but that he'd meet me for a drink 
at ten o'clock at the Wicker Bar, on 54th. I think he was pretty surprised to hear from me. 
I once called him a fat-assed phony. 
  I had quite a bit of time to kill till ten o'clock, so what I did, I went to the movies 
at Radio City. It was probably the worst thing I could've done, but it was near, and I 
couldn't think of anything else. 
  I came in when the goddam stage show was on. The Rockettes were kicking their 
heads off, the way they do when they're all in line with their arms around each other's 
waist. The audience applauded like mad, and some guy behind me kept saying to his 
wife, "You know what that is? That's precision." He killed me. Then, after the Rockettes, 
a guy came out in a tuxedo and roller skates on, and started skating under a bunch of little 
tables, and telling jokes while he did it. He was a very good skater and all, but I couldn't 
enjoy it much because I kept picturing him practicing to be a guy that roller-skates on the 
stage. It seemed so stupid. I guess I just wasn't in the right mood. Then, after him, they 
had this Christmas thing they have at Radio City every year. All these angels start coming 
out of the boxes and everywhere, guys carrying crucifixes and stuff all over the place, 
and the whole bunch of them--thousands of them--singing "Come All Ye Faithful!" like 
mad. Big deal. It's supposed to be religious as hell, I know, and very pretty and all, but I 
can't see anything religious or pretty, for God's sake, about a bunch of actors carrying 
crucifixes all over the stage. When they were all finished and started going out the boxes 
again, you could tell they could hardly wait to get a cigarette or something. I saw it with 
old Sally Hayes the year before, and she kept saying how beautiful it was, the costumes 
and all. I said old Jesus probably would've puked if He could see it--all those fancy 
costumes and all. Sally said I was a sacrilegious atheist. I probably am. The thing Jesus 
really would've liked would be the guy that plays the kettle drums in the orchestra. I've 
watched that guy since I was about eight years old. My brother Allie and I, if we were 
with our parents and all, we used to move our seats and go way down so we could watch 
him. He's the best drummer I ever saw. He only gets a chance to bang them a couple of 
times during a whole piece, but he never looks bored when he isn't doing it. Then when 
he does bang them, he does it so nice and sweet, with this nervous expression on his face. 
One time when we went to Washington with my father, Allie sent him a postcard, but I'll 
bet he never got it. We weren't too sure how to address it. 
  After the Christmas thing was over, the goddam picture started. It was so putrid I 
couldn't take my eyes off it. It was about this English guy, Alec something, that was in 
the war and loses his memory in the hospital and all. He comes out of the hospital 
carrying a cane and limping all over the place, all over London, not knowing who the hell 
he is. He's really a duke, but he doesn't know it. Then he meets this nice, homey, sincere 
girl getting on a bus. Her goddam hat blows off and he catches it, and then they go 
upstairs and sit down and start talking about Charles Dickens. He's both their favorite 
author and all. He's carrying this copy of Oliver Twist and so's she. I could've puked. 
Anyway, they fell in love right away, on account of they're both so nuts about Charles 
Dickens and all, and he helps her run her publishing business. She's a publisher, the girl. 
Only, she's not doing so hot, because her brother's a drunkard and he spends all their 
dough. He's a very bitter guy, the brother, because he was a doctor in the war and now he 
can't operate any more because his nerves are shot, so he boozes all the time, but he's 
pretty witty and all. Anyway, old Alec writes a book, and this girl publishes it, and they 
both make a hatful of dough on it. They're all set to get married when this other girl, old 
Marcia, shows up. Marcia was Alec's fiancée before he lost his memory, and she 
recognizes him when he's in this store autographing books. She tells old Alec he's really a 
duke and all, but he doesn't believe her and doesn't want to go with her to visit his mother 
and all. His mother's blind as a bat. But the other girl, the homey one, makes him go. 
She's very noble and all. So he goes. But he still doesn't get his memory back, even when 
his great Dane jumps all over him and his mother sticks her fingers all over his face and 
brings him this teddy bear he used to slobber around with when he was a kid. But then, 
one day, some kids are playing cricket on the lawn and he gets smacked in the head with 
a cricket ball. Then right away he gets his goddam memory back and he goes in and 
kisses his mother on the forehead and all. Then he starts being a regular duke again, and 
he forgets all about the homey babe that has the publishing business. I'd tell you the rest 
of the story, but I might puke if I did. It isn't that I'd spoil it for you or anything. There 
isn't anything to spoil for Chrissake. Anyway, it ends up with Alec and the homey babe 
getting married, and the brother that's a drunkard gets his nerves back and operates on 
Alec's mother so she can see again, and then the drunken brother and old Marcia go for 
each other. It ends up with everybody at this long dinner table laughing their asses off 
because the great Dane comes in with a bunch of puppies. Everybody thought it was a 
male, I suppose, or some goddam thing. All I can say is, don't see it if you don't want to 
puke all over yourself. 
  The part that got me was, there was a lady sitting next to me that cried all through 
the goddam picture. The phonier it got, the more she cried. You'd have thought she did it 
because she was kindhearted as hell, but I was sitting right next to her, and she wasn't. 
She had this little kid with her that was bored as hell and had to go to the bathroom, but 
she wouldn't take him. She kept telling him to sit still and behave himself. She was about 
as kindhearted as a goddam wolf. You take somebody that cries their goddam eyes out 
over phony stuff in the movies, and nine times out of ten they're mean bastards at heart. 
I'm not kidding. 
  After the movie was over, I started walking down to the Wicker Bar, where I was 
supposed to meet old Carl Luce, and while I walked I sort of thought about war and all. 
Those war movies always do that to me. I don't think I could stand it if I had to go to war. 
I really couldn't. It wouldn't be too bad if they'd just take you out and shoot you or 
something, but you have to stay in the Army so goddam long. That's the whole trouble. 
My brother D.B. was in the Army for four goddam years. He was in the war, too--he 
landed on D-Day and all--but I really think he hated the Army worse than the war. I was 
practically a child at the time, but I remember when he used to come home on furlough 
and all, all he did was lie on his bed, practically. He hardly ever even came in the living 
room. Later, when he went overseas and was in the war and all, he didn't get wounded or 
anything and he didn't have to shoot anybody. All he had to do was drive some cowboy 
general around all day in a command car. He once told Allie and I that if he'd had to 
shoot anybody, he wouldn't've known which direction to shoot in. He said the Army was 
practically as full of bastards as the Nazis were. I remember Allie once asked him wasn't 
it sort of good that he was in the war because he was a writer and it gave him a lot to 
write about and all. He made Allie go get his baseball mitt and then he asked him who 
was the best war poet, Rupert Brooke or Emily Dickinson. Allie said Emily Dickinson. I 
don't know too much about it myself, because I don't read much poetry, but I do know it'd 
drive me crazy if I had to be in the Army and be with a bunch of guys like Ackley and 
Stradlater and old Maurice all the time, marching with them and all. I was in the Boy 
Scouts once, for about a week, and I couldn't even stand looking at the back of the guy's 
neck in front of me. They kept telling you to look at the back of the guy's neck in front of 
you. I swear if there's ever another war, they better just take me out and stick me in front 
of a firing squad. I wouldn't object. What gets me about D.B., though, he hated the war so 
much, and yet he got me to read this book A Farewell to Arms last summer. He said it 
was so terrific. That's what I can't understand. It had this guy in it named Lieutenant 
Henry that was supposed to be a nice guy and all. I don't see how D.B. could hate the 
Army and war and all so much and still like a phony like that. I mean, for instance, I don't 
see how he could like a phony book like that and still like that one by Ring Lardner, or 
that other one he's so crazy about, The Great Gatsby. D.B. got sore when I said that, and 
said I was too young and all to appreciate it, but I don't think so. I told him I liked Ring 
Lardner and The Great Gatsby and all. I did, too. I was crazy about The Great Gatsby. 
Old Gatsby. Old sport. That killed me. Anyway, I'm sort of glad they've got the atomic 
bomb invented. If there's ever another war, I'm going to sit right the hell on top of it. I'll 
volunteer for it, I swear to God I will. 
 
 
19 
 
  In case you don't live in New York, the Wicker Bar is in this sort of swanky hotel, 
the Seton Hotel. I used to go there quite a lot, but I don't any more. I gradually cut it out. 
It's one of those places that are supposed to be very sophisticated and all, and the phonies 
are coming in the window. They used to have these two French babes, Tina and Janine, 
come out and play the piano and sing about three times every night. One of them played 
the piano--strictly lousy--and the other one sang, and most of the songs were either pretty 
dirty or in French. The one that sang, old Janine, was always whispering into the goddam 
microphone before she sang. She'd say, "And now we like to geeve you our impression of 
Vooly Voo Fransay. Eet ees the story of a leetle Fransh girl who comes to a beeg ceety, 
just like New York, and falls een love wees a leetle boy from Brookleen. We hope you 
like eet." Then, when she was all done whispering and being cute as hell, she'd sing some 
dopey song, half in English and half in French, and drive all the phonies in the place mad 
with joy. If you sat around there long enough and heard all the phonies applauding and 
all, you got to hate everybody in the world, I swear you did. The bartender was a louse, 
too. He was a big snob. He didn't talk to you at all hardly unless you were a big shot or a 
celebrity or something. If you were a big shot or a celebrity or something, then he was 
even more nauseating. He'd go up to you and say, with this big charming smile, like he 
was a helluva swell guy if you knew him, "Well! How's Connecticut?" or "How's 
Florida?" It was a terrible place, I'm not kidding. I cut out going there entirely, gradually. 
  It was pretty early when I got there. I sat down at the bar--it was pretty crowded--
and had a couple of Scotch and sodas before old Luce even showed up. I stood up when I 
ordered them so they could see how tall I was and all and not think I was a goddam 
minor. Then I watched the phonies for a while. Some guy next to me was snowing hell 
out of the babe he was with. He kept telling her she had aristocratic hands. That killed 
me. The other end of the bar was full of flits. They weren't too flitty-looking--I mean they 
didn't have their hair too long or anything--but you could tell they were flits anyway. 
Finally old Luce showed up. 
  Old Luce. What a guy. He was supposed to be my Student Adviser when I was at 
Whooton. The only thing he ever did, though, was give these sex talks and all, late at 
night when there was a bunch of guys in his room. He knew quite a bit about sex, 
especially perverts and all. He was always telling us about a lot of creepy guys that go 
around having affairs with sheep, and guys that go around with girls' pants sewed in the 
lining of their hats and all. And flits and Lesbians. Old Luce knew who every flit and 
Lesbian in the United States was. All you had to do was mention somebody--anybody--
and old Luce'd tell you if he was a flit or not. Sometimes it was hard to believe, the 
people he said were flits and Lesbians and all, movie actors and like that. Some of the 
ones he said were flits were even married, for God's sake. You'd keep saying to him, 
"You mean Joe Blow's a flit? Joe Blow? That big, tough guy that plays gangsters and 
cowboys all the time?" Old Luce'd say, "Certainly." He was always saying "Certainly." 
He said it didn't matter if a guy was married or not. He said half the married guys in the 
world were flits and didn't even know it. He said you could turn into one practically 
overnight, if you had all the traits and all. He used to scare the hell out of us. I kept 
waiting to turn into a flit or something. The funny thing about old Luce, I used to think he 
was sort of flitty himself, in a way. He was always saying, "Try this for size," and then 
he'd goose the hell out of you while you were going down the corridor. And whenever he 
went to the can, he always left the goddam door open and talked to you while you were 
brushing your teeth or something. That stuff's sort of flitty. It really is. I've known quite a 
few real flits, at schools and all, and they're always doing stuff like that, and that's why I 
always had my doubts about old Luce. He was a pretty intelligent guy, though. He really 
was. 
  He never said hello or anything when he met you. The first thing he said when he 
sat down was that he could only stay a couple of minutes. He said he had a date. Then he 
ordered a dry Martini. He told the bartender to make it very dry, and no olive. 
  "Hey, I got a flit for you," I told him. "At the end of the bar. Don't look now. I 
been saving him for ya." 
  "Very funny," he said. "Same old Caulfield. When are you going to grow up?" 
  I bored him a lot. I really did. He amused me, though. He was one of those guys 
that sort of amuse me a lot. 
  "How's your sex life?" I asked him. He hated you to ask him stuff like that. 
  "Relax," he said. "Just sit back and relax, for Chrissake." 
  "I'm relaxed," I said. "How's Columbia? Ya like it?" 
  "Certainly I like it. If I didn't like it I wouldn't have gone there," he said. He could 
be pretty boring himself sometimes. 
  "What're you majoring in?" I asked him. "Perverts?" I was only horsing around. 
  "What're you trying to be--funny?" 
  "No. I'm only kidding," I said. "Listen, hey, Luce. You're one of these intellectual 
guys. I need your advice. I'm in a terrific--" 
  He let out this big groan on me. "Listen, Caulfield. If you want to sit here and 
have a quiet, peaceful drink and a quiet, peaceful conver--" 
  "All right, all right," I said. "Relax." You could tell he didn't feel like discussing 
anything serious with me. That's the trouble with these intellectual guys. They never want 
to discuss anything serious unless they feel like it. So all I did was, I started discussing 
topics in general with him. "No kidding, how's your sex life?" I asked him. "You still 
going around with that same babe you used to at Whooton? The one with the terrffic--" 
  "Good God, no," he said. 
  "How come? What happened to her?" 
  "I haven't the faintest idea. For all I know, since you ask, she's probably the 
Whore of New Hampshire by this time." 
  "That isn't nice. If she was decent enough to let you get sexy with her all the time, 
you at least shouldn't talk about her that way." 
  "Oh, God!" old Luce said. "Is this going to be a typical Caulfield conversation? I 
want to know right now." 
  "No," I said, "but it isn't nice anyway. If she was decent and nice enough to let 
you--" 
  "Must we pursue this horrible trend of thought?" 
  I didn't say anything. I was sort of afraid he'd get up and leave on me if I didn't 
shut up. So all I did was, I ordered another drink. I felt like getting stinking drunk. 
  "Who're you going around with now?" I asked him. "You feel like telling me?" 
  "Nobody you know." 
  "Yeah, but who? I might know her." 
  "Girl lives in the Village. Sculptress. If you must know." 
  "Yeah? No kidding? How old is she?" 
  "I've never asked her, for God's sake." 
  "Well, around how old?" 
  "I should imagine she's in her late thirties," old Luce said. 
  "In her late thirties? Yeah? You like that?" I asked him. "You like 'em that old?" 
The reason I was asking was because he really knew quite a bit about sex and all. He was 
one of the few guys I knew that did. He lost his virginity when he was only fourteen, in 
Nantucket. He really did. 
  "I like a mature person, if that's what you mean. Certainly." 
  "You do? Why? No kidding, they better for sex and all?" 
  "Listen. Let's get one thing straight. I refuse to answer any typical Caulfield 
questions tonight. When in hell are you going to grow up?" 
  I didn't say anything for a while. I let it drop for a while. Then old Luce ordered 
another Martini and told the bartender to make it a lot dryer. 
  "Listen. How long you been going around with her, this sculpture babe?" I asked 
him. I was really interested. "Did you know her when you were at Whooton?" 
  "Hardly. She just arrived in this country a few months ago." 
  "She did? Where's she from?" 
  "She happens to be from Shanghai." 
  "No kidding! She Chinese, for Chrissake?" 
  "Obviously." 
  "No kidding! Do you like that? Her being Chinese?" 
  "Obviously." 
  "Why? I'd be interested to know--I really would." 
  "I simply happen to find Eastern philosophy more satisfactory than Western. 
Since you ask." 
  "You do? Wuddaya mean 'philosophy'? Ya mean sex and all? You mean it's better 
in China? That what you mean?" 
  "Not necessarily in China, for God's sake. The East I said. Must we go on with 
this inane conversation?" 
  "Listen, I'm serious," I said. "No kidding. Why's it better in the East?" 
  "It's too involved to go into, for God's sake," old Luce said. "They simply happen 
to regard sex as both a physical and a spiritual experience. If you think I'm--" 
  "So do I! So do I regard it as a wuddayacallit--a physical and spiritual experience 
and all. I really do. But it depends on who the hell I'm doing it with. If I'm doing it with 
somebody I don't even--" 
  "Not so loud, for God's sake, Caulfield. If you can't manage to keep your voice 
down, let's drop the whole--" 
  "All right, but listen," I said. I was getting excited and I was talking a little too 
loud. Sometimes I talk a little loud when I get excited. "This is what I mean, though," I 
said. "I know it's supposed to be physical and spiritual, and artistic and all. But what I 
mean is, you can't do it with everybody--every girl you neck  with and all--and make it 
come out that way. Can you?" 
  "Let's drop it," old Luce said. "Do you mind?" 
  "All right, but listen. Take you and this Chinese babe. What's so good about you 
two?" 
  "Drop it, I said." 
  I was getting a little too personal. I realize that. But that was one of the annoying 
things about Luce. When we were at Whooton, he'd make you describe the most personal 
stuff that happened to you, but if you started asking him questions about himself, he got 
sore. These intellectual guys don't like to have an intellectual conversation with you 
unless they're running the whole thing. They always want you to shut up when they shut 
up, and go back to your room when they go back to their room. When I was at Whooton 
old Luce used to hate it--you really could tell he did--when after he was finished giving 
his sex talk to a bunch of us in his room we stuck around and chewed the fat by ourselves 
for a while. I mean the other guys and myself. In somebody else's room. Old Luce hated 
that. He always wanted everybody to go back to their own room and shut up when he was 
finished being the big shot. The thing he was afraid of, he was afraid somebody'd say 
something smarter than he had. He really amused me. 
  "Maybe I'll go to China. My sex life is lousy," I said. 
  "Naturally. Your mind is immature." 
  "It is. It really is. I know it," I said. "You know what the trouble with me is? I can 
never get really sexy--I mean really sexy--with a girl I don't like a lot. I mean I have to 
like her a lot. If I don't, I sort of lose my goddam desire for her and all. Boy, it really 
screws up my sex life something awful. My sex life stinks." 
  "Naturally it does, for God's sake. I told you the last time I saw you what you 
need." 
  "You mean to go to a psychoanalyst and all?" I said. That's what he'd told me I 
ought to do. His father was a psychoanalyst and all. 
  "It's up to you, for God's sake. It's none of my goddam business what you do with 
your life." 
  I didn't say anything for a while. I was thinking. 
  "Supposing I went to your father and had him psychoanalyze me and all," I said. 
"What would he do to me? I mean what would he do to me?" 
  "He wouldn't do a goddam thing to you. He'd simply talk to you, and you'd talk to 
him, for God's sake. For one thing, he'd help you to recognize the patterns of your mind." 
  "The what?" 
  "The patterns of your mind. Your mind runs in-- Listen. I'm not giving an 
elementary course in psychoanalysis. If you're interested, call him up and make an 
appointment. If you're not, don't. I couldn't care less, frankly." 
  I put my hand on his shoulder. Boy, he amused me. "You're a real friendly 
bastard," I told him. "You know that?" 
  He was looking at his wrist watch. "I have to tear," he said, and stood up. "Nice 
seeing you." He got the bartender and told him to bring him his check. 
  "Hey," I said, just before he beat it. "Did your father ever psychoanalyze you?" 
  "Me? Why do you ask?" 
  "No reason. Did he, though? Has he?" 
  "Not exactly. He's helped me to adjust myself to a certain extent, but an extensive 
analysis hasn't been necessary. Why do you ask?" 
  "No reason. I was just wondering." 
  "Well. Take it easy," he said. He was leaving his tip and all and he was starting to 
go. 
  "Have just one more drink," I told him. "Please. I'm lonesome as hell. No 
kidding." 
  He said he couldn't do it, though. He said he was late now, and then he left. 
  Old Luce. He was strictly a pain in the ass, but he certainly had a good 
vocabulary. He had the largest vocabulary of any boy at Whooton when I was there. They 
gave us a test. 
 
 
20 
 
  I kept sitting there getting drunk and waiting for old Tina and Janine to come out 
and do their stuff, but they weren't there. A flitty-looking guy with wavy hair came out 
and played the piano, and then this new babe, Valencia, came out and sang. She wasn't 
any good, but she was better than old Tina and Janine, and at least she sang good songs. 
The piano was right next to the bar where I was sitting and all, and old Valencia was 
standing practically right next to me. I sort of gave her the old eye, but she pretended she 
didn't even see me. I probably wouldn't have done it, but I was getting drunk as hell. 
When she was finished, she beat it out of the room so fast I didn't even get a chance to 
invite her to join me for a drink, so I called the headwaiter over. I told him to ask old 
Valencia if she'd care to join me for a drink. He said he would, but he probably didn't 
even give her my message. People never give your message to anybody. 
  Boy, I sat at that goddam bar till around one o'clock or so, getting drunk as a 
bastard. I could hardly see straight. The one thing I did, though, I was careful as hell not 
to get boisterous or anything. I didn't want anybody to notice me or anything or ask how 
old I was. But, boy, I could hardly see straight. When I was really drunk, I started that 
stupid business with the bullet in my guts again. I was the only guy at the bar with a 
bullet in their guts. I kept putting my hand under my jacket, on my stomach and all, to 
keep the blood from dripping all over the place. I didn't want anybody to know I was 
even wounded. I was concealing the fact that I was a wounded sonuvabitch. Finally what 
I felt like, I felt like giving old Jane a buzz and see if she was home yet. So I paid my 
check and all. Then I left the bar and went out where the telephones were. I kept keeping 
my hand under my jacket to keep the blood from dripping. Boy, was I drunk. 
  But when I got inside this phone booth, I wasn't much in the mood any more to 
give old Jane a buzz. I was too drunk, I guess. So what I did, I gave old Sally Hayes a 
buzz. 
  I had to dial about twenty numbers before I got the right one. Boy, was I blind. 
  "Hello," I said when somebody answered the goddam phone. I sort of yelled it, I 
was so drunk. 
  "Who is this?" this very cold lady's voice said. 
  "This is me. Holden Caulfield. Lemme speaka Sally, please." 
  "Sally's asleep. This is Sally's grandmother. Why are you calling at this hour, 
Holden? Do you know what time it is?" 
  "Yeah. Wanna talka Sally. Very important. Put her on." 
  "Sally's asleep, young man. Call her tomorrow. Good night." 
  "Wake 'er up! Wake 'er up, hey. Attaboy." 
  Then there was a different voice. "Holden, this is me." It was old Sally. "What's 
the big idea?" 
  "Sally? That you?" 
  "Yes--stop screaming. Are you drunk?" 
  "Yeah. Listen. Listen, hey. I'll come over Christmas Eve. Okay? Trimma goddarn 
tree for ya. Okay? Okay, hey, Sally?"  
  "Yes. You're drunk. Go to bed now. Where are you? Who's with you?"  
  "Sally? I'll come over and trimma tree for ya, okay? Okay, hey?" 
  "Yes. Go to bed now. Where are you? Who's with you?" 
  "Nobody. Me, myself and I." Boy was I drunk! I was even still holding onto my 
guts. "They got me. Rocky's mob got me. You know that? Sally, you know that?"  
  "I can't hear you. Go to bed now. I have to go. Call me tomorrow."  
  "Hey, Sally! You want me trimma tree for ya? Ya want me to? Huh?" 
  "Yes. Good night. Go home and go to bed."   
  She hung up on me. 
  "G'night. G'night, Sally baby. Sally sweetheart darling," I said. Can you imagine 
how drunk I was? I hung up too, then. I figured she probably just came home from a date. 
I pictured her out with the Lunts and all somewhere, and that Andover jerk. All of them 
swimming around in a goddam pot of tea and saying sophisticated stuff to each other and 
being charming and phony. I wished to God I hadn't even phoned her. When I'm drunk, 
I'm a madman. 
  I stayed in the damn phone booth for quite a while. I kept holding onto the phone, 
sort of, so I wouldn't pass out. I wasn't feeling too marvelous, to tell you the truth. 
Finally, though, I came out and went in the men's room, staggering around like a moron, 
and filled one of the washbowls with cold water. Then I dunked my head in it, right up to 
the ears. I didn't even bother to dry it or anything. I just let the sonuvabitch drip. Then I 
walked over to this radiator by the window and sat down on it. It was nice and warm. It 
felt good because I was shivering like a bastard. It's a funny thing, I always shiver like 
hell when I'm drunk. 
  I didn't have anything else to do, so I kept sitting on the radiator and counting 
these little white squares on the floor. I was getting soaked. About a gallon of water was 
dripping down my neck, getting all over my collar and tie and all, but I didn't give a 
damn. I was too drunk to give a damn. Then, pretty soon, the guy that played the piano 
for old Valencia, this very wavyhaired, flitty-looking guy, came in to comb his golden 
locks. We sort of struck up a conversation while he was combing it, except that he wasn't 
too goddam friendly. 
  "Hey. You gonna see that Valencia babe when you go back in the bar?" I asked 
him. 
  "It's highly probable," he said. Witty bastard. All I ever meet is witty bastards. 
  "Listen. Give her my compliments. Ask her if that goddam waiter gave her my 
message, willya?" 
  "Why don't you go home, Mac? How old are you, anyway?" 
  "Eighty-six. Listen. Give her my compliments. Okay?" 
  "Why don't you go home, Mac?" 
  "Not me. Boy, you can play that goddam piano." I told him. I was just flattering 
him. He played the piano stinking, if you want to know the truth. "You oughta go on the 
radio," I said. "Handsome chap like you. All those goddam golden locks. Ya need a 
manager?" 
  "Go home, Mac, like a good guy. Go home and hit the sack." 
  "No home to go to. No kidding--you need a manager?" 
  He didn't answer me. He just went out. He was all through combing his hair and 
patting it and all, so he left. Like Stradlater. All these handsome guys are the same. When 
they're done combing their goddam hair, they beat it on you. 
  When I finally got down off the radiator and went out to the hat-check room, I 
was crying and all. I don't know why, but I was. I guess it was because I was feeling so 
damn depressed and lonesome. Then, when I went out to the checkroom, I couldn't find 
my goddam check. The hat-check girl was very nice about it, though. She gave me my 
coat anyway. And my "Little Shirley Beans" record--I still had it with me and all. I gave 
her a buck for being so nice, but she wouldn't take it. She kept telling me to go home and 
go to bed. I sort of tried to make a date with her for when she got through working, but 
she wouldn't do it. She said she was old enough to be my mother and all. I showed her 
my goddam gray hair and told her I was forty-two--I was only horsing around, naturally. 
She was nice, though. I showed her my goddam red hunting hat, and she liked it. She 
made me put it on before I went out, because my hair was still pretty wet. She was all 
right. 
  I didn't feel too drunk any more when I went outside, but it was getting very cold 
out again, and my teeth started chattering like hell. I couldn't make them stop. I walked 
over to Madison Avenue and started to wait around for a bus because I didn't have hardly 
any money left and I had to start economizing on cabs and all. But I didn't feel like 
getting on a damn bus. And besides, I didn't even know where I was supposed to go. So 
what I did, I started walking over to the park. I figured I'd go by that little lake and see 
what the hell the ducks were doing, see if they were around or not, I still didn't know if 
they were around or not. It wasn't far over to the park, and I didn't have anyplace else 
special to go to--I didn't even know where I was going to sleep yet--so I went. I wasn't 
tired or anything. I just felt blue as hell. 
  Then something terrible happened just as I got in the park. I dropped old Phoebe's 
record. It broke-into about fifty pieces. It was in a big envelope and all, but it broke 
anyway. I damn near cried, it made me feel so terrible, but all I did was, I took the pieces 
out of the envelope and put them in my coat pocket. They  weren't any good for anything, 
but I didn't feel like  just throwing them away. Then I went in the park. Boy, was it dark. 
  I've lived in New York all my life, and I know Central Park like the back of my 
hand, because I used to roller-skate there all the time and ride my bike when I was a kid, 
but I had the most terrific trouble finding that lagoon that night. I knew right where it 
was--it was right near Central Park South and all--but I still couldn't find it. I must've 
been drunker than I thought. I kept walking and walking, and it kept getting darker and 
darker and spookier and spookier. I didn't see one person the whole time I was in the 
park. I'm just as glad. I probably would've jumped about a mile if I had. Then, finally, I 
found it. What it was, it was partly frozen and partly not frozen. But I didn't see any 
ducks around. I walked all around the whole damn lake--I damn near fell in once, in fact-
-but I didn't see a single duck. I thought maybe if there were any around, they might be 
asleep or something near the edge of the water, near the grass and all. That's how I nearly 
fell in. But I couldn't find any. 
  Finally I sat down on this bench, where it wasn't so goddam dark. Boy, I was still 
shivering like a bastard, and the back of my hair, even though I had my hunting hat on, 
was sort of full of little hunks of ice. That worried me. I thought probably I'd get 
pneumonia and die. I started picturing millions of jerks coming to my funeral and all. My 
grandfather from Detroit, that keeps calling out the numbers of the streets when you ride 
on a goddam bus with him, and my aunts--I have about fifty aunts--and all my lousy 
cousins. What a mob'd be there. They all came when Allie died, the whole goddam stupid 
bunch of them. I have this one stupid aunt with halitosis that kept saying how peaceful he 
looked lying there, D.B. told me. I wasn't there. I was still in the hospital. I had to go to 
the hospital and all after I hurt my hand. Anyway, I kept worrying that I was getting 
pneumonia, with all those hunks of ice in my hair, and that I was going to die. I felt sorry 
as hell for my mother and father. Especially my mother, because she still isn't over my 
brother Allie yet. I kept picturing her not knowing what to do with all my suits and 
athletic equipment and all. The only good thing, I knew she wouldn't let old Phoebe come 
to my goddam funeral because she was only a little kid. That was the only good part. 
Then I thought about the whole bunch of them sticking me in a goddam cemetery and all, 
with my name on this tombstone and all. Surrounded by dead guys. Boy, when you're 
dead, they really fix you up. I hope to hell when I do die somebody has sense enough to 
just dump me in the river or something. Anything except sticking me in a goddam 
cemetery. People coming and putting a bunch of flowers on your stomach on Sunday, and 
all that crap. Who wants flowers when you're dead? Nobody. 
  When the weather's nice, my parents go out quite frequently and stick a bunch of 
flowers on old Allie's grave. I went with them a couple of times, but I cut it out. In the 
first place, I certainly don't enjoy seeing him in that crazy cemetery. Surrounded by dead 
guys and tombstones and all. It wasn't too bad when the sun was out, but twice--twice--
we were there when it started to rain. It was awful. It rained on his lousy tombstone, and 
it rained on the grass on his stomach. It rained all over the place. All the visitors that were 
visiting the cemetery started running like hell over to their cars. That's what nearly drove 
me crazy. All the visitors could get in their cars and turn on their radios and all and then 
go someplace nice for dinner--everybody except Allie. I couldn't stand it. I know it's only 
his body and all that's in the cemetery, and his soul's in Heaven and all that crap, but I 
couldn't stand it anyway. I just wish he wasn't there. You didn't know him. If you'd 
known him, you'd know what I mean. It's not too bad when the sun's out, but the sun only 
comes out when it feels like coming out. 
  After a while, just to get my mind off getting pneumonia and all, I took out my 
dough and tried to count it in the lousy light from the street lamp. All I had was three 
singles and five quarters and a nickel left--boy, I spent a fortune since I left Pencey. Then 
what I did, I went down near the lagoon and I sort of skipped the quarters and the nickel 
across it, where it wasn't frozen. I don't know why I did it, but I did it. I guess I thought 
it'd take my mind off getting pneumonia and dying. It didn't, though. 
  I started thinking how old Phoebe would feel if I got pneumonia and died. It was a 
childish way to think, but I couldn't stop myself. She'd feel pretty bad if something like 
that happened. She likes me a lot. I mean she's quite fond of me. She really is. Anyway, I 
couldn't get that off my mind, so finally what I figured I'd do, I figured I'd better sneak 
home and see her, in case I died and all. I had my door key with me and all, and I figured 
what I'd do, I'd sneak in the apartment, very quiet and all, and just sort of chew the fat 
with her for a while. The only thing that worried me was our front door. It creaks like a 
bastard. It's a pretty old apartment house, and the superintendent's a lazy bastard, and 
everything creaks and squeaks. I was afraid my parents might hear me sneaking in. But I 
decided I'd try it anyhow. 
  So I got the hell out of the park, and went home. I walked all the way. It wasn't 
too far, and I wasn't tired or even drunk any more. It was just very cold and nobody 
around anywhere. 
 
 
21 
 
  The best break I had in years, when I got home the regular night elevator boy, 
Pete, wasn't on the car. Some new guy I'd never seen was on the car, so I figured that if I 
didn't bump smack into my parents and all I'd be able to say hello to old Phoebe and then 
beat it and nobody'd even know I'd been around. It was really a terrific break. What made 
it even better, the new elevator boy was sort of on the stupid side. I told him, in this very 
casual voice, to take me up to the Dicksteins'. The Dicksteins were these people that had 
the other apartment on our floor. I'd already taken off my hunting hat, so as not to look 
suspicious or anything. I went in the elevator like I was in a terrific hurry. 
  He had the elevator doors all shut and all, and was all set to take me up, and then 
he turned around and said, "They ain't in. They're at a party on the fourteenth floor." 
  "That's all right," I said. "I'm supposed to wait for them. I'm their nephew." 
  He gave me this sort of stupid, suspicious look. "You better wait in the lobby, 
fella," he said. 
  "I'd like to--I really would," I said. "But I have a bad leg. I have to hold it in a 
certain position. I think I'd better sit down in the chair outside their door." 
  He didn't know what the hell I was talking about, so all he said was "Oh" and took 
me up. Not bad, boy. It's funny. All you have to do is say something nobody understands 
and they'll do practically anything you want them to. 
  I got off at our floor--limping like a bastard--and started walking over toward the 
Dicksteins' side. Then, when I heard the elevator doors shut, I turned around and went 
over to our side. I was doing all right. I didn't even feel drunk anymore. Then I took out 
my door key and opened our door, quiet as hell. Then, very, very carefully and all, I went 
inside and closed the door. I really should've been a crook. 
  It was dark as hell in the foyer, naturally, and naturally I couldn't turn on any 
lights. I had to be careful not to bump into anything and make a racket. I certainly knew I 
was home, though. Our foyer has a funny smell that doesn't smell like anyplace else. I 
don't know what the hell it is. It isn't cauliflower and it isn't perfume--I don't know what 
the hell it is--but you always know you're home. I started to take off my coat and hang it 
up in the foyer closet, but that closet's full of hangers that rattle like madmen when you 
open the door, so I left it on. Then I started walking very, very slowly back toward old 
Phoebe's room. I knew the maid wouldn't hear me because she had only one eardrum. She 
had this brother that stuck a straw down her ear when she was a kid, she once told me. 
She was pretty deaf and all. But my parents, especially my mother, she has ears like a 
goddam bloodhound. So I took it very, very easy when I went past their door. I even held 
my breath, for God's sake. You can hit my father over the head with a chair and he won't 
wake up, but my mother, all you have to do to my mother is cough somewhere in Siberia 
and she'll hear you. She's nervous as hell. Half the time she's up all night smoking 
cigarettes. 
  Finally, after about an hour, I got to old Phoebe's room. She wasn't there, though. 
I forgot about that. I forgot she always sleeps in D.B.'s room when he's away in 
Hollywood or some place. She likes it because it's the biggest room in the house. Also 
because it has this big old madman desk in it that D.B. bought off some lady alcoholic in 
Philadelphia, and this big, gigantic bed that's about ten miles wide and ten miles long. I 
don't know where he bought that bed. Anyway, old Phoebe likes to sleep in D.B.'s room 
when he's away, and he lets her. You ought to see her doing her homework or something 
at that crazy desk. It's almost as big as the bed. You can hardly see her when she's doing 
her homework. That's the kind of stuff she likes, though. She doesn't like her own room 
because it's too little, she says. She says she likes to spread out. That kills me. What's old 
Phoebe got to spread out? Nothing. 
  Anyway, I went into D.B.'s room quiet as hell, and turned on the lamp on the 
desk. Old Phoebe didn't even wake up. When the light was on and all, I sort of looked at 
her for a while. She was laying there asleep, with her face sort of on the side of the 
pillow. She had her mouth way open. It's funny. You take adults, they look lousy when 
they're asleep and they have their mouths way open, but kids don't. Kids look all right. 
They can even have spit all over the pillow and they still look all right. 
  I went around the room, very quiet and all, looking at stuff for a while. I felt 
swell, for a change. I didn't even feel like I was getting pneumonia or anything any more. 
I just felt good, for a change. Old Phoebe's clothes were on this chair right next to the 
bed. She's very neat, for a child. I mean she doesn't just throw her stuff around, like some 
kids. She's no slob. She had the jacket to this tan suit my mother bought her in Canada 
hung up on the back of the chair. Then her blouse and stuff were on the seat. Her shoes 
and socks were on the floor, right underneath the chair, right next to each other. I never 
saw the shoes before. They were new. They were these dark brown loafers, sort of like 
this pair I have, and they went swell with that suit my mother bought her in Canada. My 
mother dresses her nice. She really does. My mother has terrific taste in some things. 
She's no good at buying ice skates or anything like that, but clothes, she's perfect. I mean 
Phoebe always has some dress on that can kill you. You take most little kids, even if their 
parents are wealthy and all, they usually have some terrible dress on. I wish you could see 
old Phoebe in that suit my mother bought her in Canada. I'm not kidding. 
  I sat down on old D.B.'s desk and looked at the stuff on it. It was mostly Phoebe's 
stuff, from school and all. Mostly books. The one on top was called Arithmetic Is Fun! I 
sort of opened the first page and took a look at it. This is what old Phoebe had on it: 
 
      PHOEBE WEATHERFIELD CAULFIELD 
          4B-1 
 
  That killed me. Her middle name is Josephine, for God's sake, not Weatherfield. 
She doesn't like it, though. Every time I see her she's got a new middle name for herself. 
  The book underneath the arithmetic was a geography, and the book under the 
geography was a speller. She's very good in spelling. She's very good in all her subjects, 
but she's best in spelling. Then, under the speller, there were a bunch of notebooks. She 
has about five thousand notebooks. You never saw a kid with so many notebooks. I 
opened the one on top and looked at the first page. It had on it: 
 
    Bernice meet me at recess I have something 
    very very important to tell you. 
 
  That was all there was on that page. The next one had on it: 
 
      Why has south eastern Alaska so many caning factories? 
      Because theres so much salmon 
      Why has it valuable forests? 
      because it has the right climate. 
      What has our government done to make 
      life easier for the alaskan eskimos? 
      look it up for tomorrow!!! 
      Phoebe Weatherfield Caulfield 
      Phoebe Weatherfield Caulfield 
      Phoebe Weatherfield Caulfield 
      Phoebe W. Caulfield 
      Phoebe Weatherfield Caulfield, Esq.  
      Please pass to Shirley!!!! 
      Shirley you said you were sagitarius 
      but your only taurus bring your skates  
      when you come over to my house 
 
  I sat there on D.B.'s desk and read the whole notebook. It didn't take me long, and 
I can read that kind of stuff, some kid's notebook, Phoebe's or anybody's, all day and all 
night long. Kid's notebooks kill me. Then I lit another cigarette--it was my last one. I 
must've smoked about three cartons that day. Then, finally, I woke her up. I mean I 
couldn't sit there on that desk for the rest of my life, and besides, I was afraid my parents 
might barge in on me all of a sudden and I wanted to at least say hello to her before they 
did. So I woke her up. 
  She wakes up very easily. I mean you don't have to yell at her or anything. All 
you have to do, practically, is sit down on the bed and say, "Wake up, Phoeb," and bingo, 
she's awake. 
  "Holden!" she said right away. She put her arms around my neck and all. She's 
very affectionate. I mean she's quite affectionate, for a child. Sometimes she's even too 
affectionate. I sort of gave her a kiss, and she said, "Whenja get home7' She was glad as 
hell to see me. You could tell. 
  "Not so loud. Just now. How are ya anyway?" 
  "I'm fine. Did you get my letter? I wrote you a five-page--" 
  "Yeah--not so loud. Thanks." 
  She wrote me this letter. I didn't get a chance to answer it, though. It was all about 
this play she was in in school. She told me not to make any dates or anything for Friday 
so that I could come see it. 
  "How's the play?" I asked her. "What'd you say the name of it was?" 
  "'A Christmas Pageant for Americans.' It stinks, but I'm Benedict Arnold. I have 
practically the biggest part," she said. Boy, was she wide-awake. She gets very excited 
when she tells you that stuff. "It starts out when I'm dying. This ghost comes in on 
Christmas Eve and asks me if I'm ashamed and everything. You know. For betraying my 
country and everything. Are you coming to it?" She was sitting way the hell up in the bed 
and all. "That's what I wrote you about. Are you?" 
  "Sure I'm coming. Certainly I'm coming." 
  "Daddy can't come. He has to fly to California," she said. Boy, was she wide-
awake. It only takes her about two seconds to get wide-awake. She was sitting--sort of 
kneeling--way up in bed, and she was holding my goddam hand. "Listen. Mother said 
you'd be home Wednesday," she said. "She said Wednesday." 
  "I got out early. Not so loud. You'll wake everybody up." 
  "What time is it? They won't be home till very late, Mother said. They went to a 
party in Norwalk, Connecticut," old Phoebe said. "Guess what I did this afternoon! What 
movie I saw. Guess!" 
  "I don't know--Listen. Didn't they say what time they'd--" 
  "The Doctor," old Phoebe said. "It's a special movie they had at the Lister 
Foundation. Just this one day they had it--today was the only day. It was all about this 
doctor in Kentucky and everything that sticks a blanket over this child's face that's a 
cripple and can't walk. Then they send him to jail and everything. It was excellent." 
  "Listen a second. Didn't they say what time they'd--"  
  "He feels sorry for it, the doctor. That's why he sticks this blanket over her face 
and everything and makes her suffocate. Then they make him go to jail for life 
imprisonment, but this child that he stuck the blanket over its head comes to visit him all 
the time and thanks him for what he did. He was a mercy killer. Only, he knows he 
deserves to go to jail because a doctor isn't supposed to take things away from God. This 
girl in my class's mother took us. Alice Holmborg, She's my best friend. She's the only 
girl in the whole--" 
  "Wait a second, willya?" I said. "I'm asking you a question. Did they say what 
time they'd be back, or didn't they?" 
  "No, but not till very late. Daddy took the car and everything so they wouldn't 
have to worry about trains. We have a radio in it now! Except that Mother said nobody 
can play it when the car's in traffic." 
  I began to relax, sort of. I mean I finally quit worrying about whether they'd catch 
me home or not. I figured the hell with it. If they did, they did. 
  You should've seen old Phoebe. She had on these blue pajamas with red elephants 
on the collars. Elephants knock her out. 
  "So it was a good picture, huh?" I said. 
  "Swell, except Alice had a cold, and her mother kept asking her all the time if she 
felt grippy. Right in the middle of the picture. Always in the middle of something 
important, her mother'd lean all over me and everything and ask Alice if she felt grippy. 
It got on my nerves." 
  Then I told her about the record. "Listen, I bought you a record," I told her. "Only 
I broke it on the way home." I took the pieces out of my coat pocket and showed her. "I 
was plastered," I said. 
  "Gimme the pieces," she said. "I'm saving them." She took them right out of my 
hand and then she put them in the drawer of the night table. She kills me. 
  "D.B. coming home for Christmas?" I asked her. 
  "He may and he may not, Mother said. It all depends. He may have to stay in 
Hollywood and write a picture about Annapolis." 
  "Annapolis, for God's sake!" 
  "It's a love story and everything. Guess who's going to be in it! What movie star. 
Guess!" 
  "I'm not interested. Annapolis, for God's sake. What's D.B. know about 
Annapolis, for God's sake? What's that got to do with the kind of stories he writes?" I 
said. Boy, that stuff drives me crazy. That goddam Hollywood. "What'd you do to your 
arm?" I asked her. I noticed she had this big hunk of adhesive tape on her elbow. The 
reason I noticed it, her pajamas didn't have any sleeves. 
  "This boy, Curtis Weintraub, that's in my class, pushed me while I was going 
down the stairs in the park," she said. "Wanna see?" She started taking the crazy adhesive 
tape off her arm. 
  "Leave it alone. Why'd he push you down the stairs?" 
  "I don't know. I think he hates me," old Phoebe said. "This other girl and me, 
Selma Atterbury, put ink and stuff all over his windbreaker." 
  "That isn't nice. What are you--a child, for God's sake?" 
  "No, but every time I'm in the park, he follows me everywhere. He's always 
following me. He gets on my nerves." 
  "He probably likes you. That's no reason to put ink all--" 
  "I don't want him to like me," she said. Then she started looking at me funny. 
"Holden," she said, "how come you're not home Wednesday?" 
  "What?" 
  Boy, you have to watch her every minute. If you don't think she's smart, you're 
mad. 
  "How come you're not home Wednesday?" she asked me. "You didn't get kicked 
out or anything, did you?" 
  "I told you. They let us out early. They let the whole--" 
  "You did get kicked out! You did!" old Phoebe said. Then she hit me on the leg 
with her fist. She gets very fisty when she feels like it. "You did! Oh, Holden!" She had 
her hand on her mouth and all. She gets very emotional, I swear to God. 
  "Who said I got kicked out? Nobody said I--" 
  "You did. You did," she said. Then she smacked me again with her fist. If you 
don't think that hurts, you're  crazy. "Daddy'll kill you!" she said. Then she flopped on her 
stomach on the bed and put the goddam pillow over her head. She does that quite 
frequently. She's a true madman sometimes. 
  "Cut it out, now," I said. "Nobody's gonna kill me. Nobody's gonna even--C'mon, 
Phoeb, take that goddam thing off your head. Nobody's gonna kill me." 
  She wouldn't take it off, though. You can't make her do something if she doesn't 
want to. All she kept saying was, "Daddy s gonna kill you." You could hardly understand 
her with that goddam pillow over her head. 
  "Nobody's gonna kill me. Use your head. In the first place, I'm going away. What 
I may do, I may get a job on a ranch or something for a while. I know this guy whose 
grandfather's got a ranch in Colorado. I may get a job out there," I said. "I'll keep in touch 
with you and all when I'm gone, if I go. C'mon. Take that off your head. C'mon, hey, 
Phoeb. Please. Please, willya?' 
  She wouldn t take it off, though I tried pulling it off, but she's strong as hell. You 
get tired fighting with her. Boy, if she wants to keep a pillow over her head, she keeps it. 
"Phoebe, please. C'mon outa there," I kept saying. "C'mon, hey . . . Hey, Weatherfield. 
C'mon out." 
  She wouldn't come out, though. You can't even reason with her sometimes. 
Finally, I got up and went out in the living room and got some cigarettes out of the box 
on the table and stuck some in my pocket. I was all out. 
 
 
22 
 
  When I came back, she had the pillow off her head all right--I knew she would--
but she still wouldn't look at me, even though she was laying on her back and all. When I 
came around the side of the bed and sat down again, she turned her crazy face the other 
way. She was ostracizing the hell out of me. Just like the fencing team at Pencey when I 
left all the goddam foils on the subway. 
  "How's old Hazel Weatherfield?" I said. "You write any new stories about her? I 
got that one you sent me right in my suitcase. It's down at the station. It's very good." 
  "Daddy'll kill you." 
  Boy, she really gets something on her mind when she gets something on her mind. 
  "No, he won't. The worst he'll do, he'll give me hell again, and then he'll send me 
to that goddam military school. That's all he'll do to me. And in the first place, I won't 
even be around. I'll be away. I'll be--I'll probably be in Colorado on this ranch." 
  "Don't make me laugh. You can't even ride a horse." 
  "Who can't? Sure I can. Certainly I can. They can teach you in about two 
minutes," I said. "Stop picking at that." She was picking at that adhesive tape on her arm. 
"Who gave you that haircut?" I asked her. I just noticed what a stupid haircut somebody 
gave her. It was way too short. 
  "None of your business," she said. She can be very snotty sometimes. She can be 
quite snotty. "I suppose you failed in every single subject again," she said--very snotty. It 
was sort of funny, too, in a way. She sounds like a goddam schoolteacher sometimes, and 
she's only a little child. 
  "No, I didn't," I said. "I passed English." Then, just for the hell of it, I gave her a 
pinch on the behind. It was sticking way out in the breeze, the way she was laying on her 
side. She has hardly any behind. I didn't do it hard, but she tried to hit my hand anyway, 
but she missed. 
  Then all of a sudden, she said, "Oh, why did you do it?" She meant why did I get 
the ax again. It made me sort of sad, the way she said it. 
  "Oh, God, Phoebe, don't ask me. I'm sick of everybody asking me that," I said. "A 
million reasons why. It was one of the worst schools I ever went to. It was full of 
phonies. And mean guys. You never saw so many mean guys in your life. For instance, if 
you were having a bull session in somebody's room, and somebody wanted to come in, 
nobody'd let them in if they were some dopey, pimply guy. Everybody was always 
locking their door when somebody wanted to come in. And they had this goddam secret 
fraternity that I was too yellow not to join. There was this one pimply, boring guy, Robert 
Ackley, that wanted to get in. He kept trying to join, and they wouldn't let him. Just 
because he was boring and pimply. I don't even feel like talking about it. It was a stinking 
school. Take my word." 
  Old Phoebe didn't say anything, but she was listen ing. I could tell by the back of 
her neck that she was listening. She always listens when you tell her something. And the 
funny part is she knows, half the time, what the hell you're talking about. She really does. 
  I kept talking about old Pencey. I sort of felt like it. 
  "Even the couple of nice teachers on the faculty, they were phonies, too," I said. 
"There was this one old guy, Mr. Spencer. His wife was always giving you hot chocolate 
and all that stuff, and they were really pretty nice. But you should've seen him when the 
headmaster, old Thurmer, came in the history class and sat down in the back of the room. 
He was always coming in and sitting down in the back of the room for about a half an 
hour. He was supposed to be incognito or something. After a while, he'd be sitting back 
there and then he'd start interrupting what old Spencer was saying to crack a lot of corny 
jokes. Old Spencer'd practically kill himself chuckling and smiling and all, like as if 
Thurmer was a goddam prince or something." 
  "Don't swear so much." 
  "It would've made you puke, I swear it would," I said. "Then, on Veterans' Day. 
They have this day, Veterans' Day, that all the jerks that graduated from Pencey around 
1776 come back and walk all over the place, with their wives and children and 
everybody. You should've seen this one old guy that was about fifty. What he did was, he 
came in our room and knocked on the door and asked us if we'd mind if he used the 
bathroom. The bathroom was at the end of the corridor--I don't know why the hell he 
asked us. You know what he said? He said he wanted to see if his initials were still in one 
of the can doors. What he did, he carved his goddam stupid sad old initials in one of the 
can doors about ninety years ago, and he wanted to see if they were still there. So my 
roommate and I walked him down to the bathroom and all, and we had to stand there 
while he looked for his initials in all the can doors. He kept talking to us the whole time, 
telling us how when he was at Pencey they were the happiest days of his life, and giving 
us a lot of advice for the future and all. Boy, did he depress me! I don't mean he was a 
bad guy--he wasn't. But you don't have to be a bad guy to depress somebody--you can be 
a good guy and do it. All you have to do to depress somebody is give them a lot of phony 
advice while you're looking for your initials in some can door--that's all you have to do. I 
don't know. Maybe it wouldn't have been so bad if he hadn't been all out of breath. He 
was all out of breath from just climbing up the stairs, and the whole time he was looking 
for his initials he kept breathing hard, with his nostrils all funny and sad, while he kept 
telling Stradlater and I to get all we could out of Pencey. God, Phoebe! I can't explain. I 
just didn't like anything that was happening at Pencey. I can't explain." 
  Old Phoebe said something then, but I couldn't hear her. She had the side of her 
mouth right smack on the pillow, and I couldn't hear her. 
  "What?" I said. "Take your mouth away. I can't hear you with your mouth that 
way." 
  "You don't like anything that's happening." 
  It made me even more depressed when she said that. 
  "Yes I do. Yes I do. Sure I do. Don't say that. Why the hell do you say that?" 
  "Because you don't. You don't like any schools. You don't like a million things. 
You don't." 
  "I do! That's where you're wrong--that's exactly where you're wrong! Why the 
hell do you have to say that?" I said. Boy, was she depressing me. 
  "Because you don't," she said. "Name one thing." 
  "One thing? One thing I like?" I said. "Okay."  
  The trouble was, I couldn't concentrate too hot. Sometimes it's hard to 
concentrate. 
  "One thing I like a lot you mean?" I asked her.  
  She didn't answer me, though. She was in a cockeyed position way the hell over 
the other side of the bed. She was about a thousand miles away. "C'mon answer me," I 
said. "One thing I like a lot, or one thing I just like?" 
  "You like a lot." 
  "All right," I said. But the trouble was, I couldn't concentrate. About all I could 
think of were those two nuns that went around collecting dough in those beatup old straw 
baskets. Especially the one with the glasses with those iron rims. And this boy I knew at 
Elkton Hills. There was this one boy at Elkton Hills, named James Castle, that wouldn't 
take back something he said about this very conceited boy, Phil Stabile. James Castle 
called him a very conceited guy, and one of Stabile's lousy friends went and squealed on 
him to Stabile. So Stabile, with about six other dirty bastards, went down to James 
Castle's room and went in and locked the goddam door and tried to make him take back 
what he said, but he wouldn't do it. So they started in on him. I won't even tell you what 
they did to him--it's too repulsive--but he still wouldn't take it back, old James Castle. 
And you should've seen him. He was a skinny little weak-looking guy, with wrists about 
as big as pencils. Finally, what he did, instead of taking back what he said, he jumped out 
the window. I was in the shower and all, and even I could hear him land outside. But I 
just thought something fell out the window, a radio or a desk or something, not a boy or 
anything. Then I heard everybody running through the corridor and down the stairs, so I 
put on my bathrobe and I ran downstairs too, and there was old James Castle laying right 
on the stone steps and all. He was dead, and his teeth, and blood, were all over the place, 
and nobody would even go near him. He had on this turtleneck sweater I'd lent him. All 
they did with the guys that were in the room with him was expel them. They didn't even 
go to jail. 
  That was about all I could think of, though. Those two nuns I saw at breakfast and 
this boy James Castle I knew at Elkton Hills. The funny part is, I hardly even know 
James Castle, if you want to know the truth. He was one of these very quiet guys. He was 
in my math class, but he was way over on the other side of the room, and he hardly ever 
got up to recite or go to the blackboard or anything. Some guys in school hardly ever get 
up to recite or go to the blackboard. I think the only time I ever even had a conversation 
with him was that time he asked me if he could borrow this turtleneck sweater I had. I 
damn near dropped dead when he asked me, I was so surprised and all. I remember I was 
brushing my teeth, in the can, when he asked me. He said his cousin was coming in to 
take him for a drive and all. I didn't even know he knew I had a turtleneck sweater. All I 
knew about him was that his name was always right ahead of me at roll call. Cabel, R., 
Cabel, W., Castle, Caulfield--I can still remember it. If you want to know the truth, I 
almost didn't lend him my sweater. Just because I didn't know him too well. 
  "What?" I said to old Phoebe. She said something to me, but I didn't hear her. 
  "You can't even think of one thing." 
  "Yes, I can. Yes, I can." 
  "Well, do it, then." 
  "I like Allie," I said. "And I like doing what I'm doing right now. Sitting here with 
you, and talking, and thinking about stuff, and--" 
  "Allie's dead--You always say that! If somebody's dead and everything, and in 
Heaven, then it isn't really--" 
  "I know he's dead! Don't you think I know that? I can still like him, though, can't 
I? Just because somebody's dead, you don't just stop liking them, for God's sake--
especially if they were about a thousand times nicer than the people you know that're 
alive and all." 
  Old Phoebe didn't say anything. When she can't think of anything to say, she 
doesn't say a goddam word. 
  "Anyway, I like it now," I said. "I mean right now. Sitting here with you and just 
chewing the fat and horsing--" 
  "That isn't anything really!" 
  "It is so something really! Certainly it is! Why the hell isn't it? People never think 
anything is anything really. I'm getting goddam sick of it," 
  "Stop swearing. All right, name something else. Name something you'd like to be. 
Like a scientist. Or a lawyer or something." 
  "I couldn't be a scientist. I'm no good in science." 
  "Well, a lawyer--like Daddy and all." 
  "Lawyers are all right, I guess--but it doesn't appeal to me," I said. "I mean they're 
all right if they go around saving innocent guys' lives all the time, and like that, but you 
don't do that kind of stuff if you're a lawyer. All you do is make a lot of dough and play 
golf and play bridge and buy cars and drink Martinis and look like a hot-shot. And 
besides. Even if you did go around saving guys' lives and all, how would you know if you 
did it because you really wanted  to save guys' lives, or because you did it because what 
you really wanted to do was be a terrific lawyer, with everybody slapping you on the 
back and congratulating you in court when the goddam trial was over, the reporters and 
everybody, the way it is in the dirty movies? How would you know you weren't being a 
phony? The trouble is, you wouldn't." 
  I'm not too sure old Phoebe knew what the hell I was talking about. I mean she's 
only a little child and all. But she was listening, at least. If somebody at least listens, it's 
not too bad. 
  "Daddy's going to kill you. He's going to kill you," she said. 
  I wasn't listening, though. I was thinking about something else--something crazy. 
"You know what I'd like to be?" I said. "You know what I'd like to be? I mean if I had my 
goddam choice?" 
  "What? Stop swearing." 
  "You know that song 'If a body catch a body comin' through the rye'? I'd like--" 
  "It's 'If a body meet a body coming through the rye'!" old Phoebe said. "It's a 
poem. By Robert Burns." 
  "I know it's a poem by Robert Burns." 
  She was right, though. It is "If a body meet a body coming through the rye." I 
didn't know it then, though. 
  "I thought it was 'If a body catch a body,'" I said. "Anyway, I keep picturing all 
these little kids playing some game in this big field of rye and all. Thousands of little 
kids, and nobody's around--nobody big, I mean--except me. And I'm standing on the edge 
of some crazy cliff. What I have to do, I have to catch everybody if they start to go over 
the cliff--I mean if they're running and they don't look where they're going I have to come 
out from somewhere and catch them. That's all I'd do all day. I'd just be the catcher in the 
rye and all. I know it's crazy, but that's the only thing I'd really like to be. I know it's 
crazy." 
  Old Phoebe didn't say anything for a long time. Then, when she said something, 
all she said was, "Daddy's going to kill you." 
  "I don't give a damn if he does," I said. I got up from the bed then, because what I 
wanted to do, I wanted to phone up this guy that was my English teacher at Elkton Hills, 
Mr. Antolini. He lived in New York now. He quit Elkton Hills. He took this job teaching 
English at N.Y.U. "I have to make a phone call," I told Phoebe. "I'll be right back. Don't 
go to sleep." I didn't want her to go to sleep while I was in the living room. I knew she 
wouldn't but I said it anyway, just to make sure. 
  While I was walking toward the door, old Phoebe said, "Holden!" and I turned 
around. 
  She was sitting way up in bed. She looked so pretty. "I'm taking belching lessons 
from this girl, Phyllis Margulies," she said. "Listen." 
  I listened, and I heard something, but it wasn't much. "Good," I said. Then I went 
out in the living room and called up this teacher I had, Mr. Antolini. 
 
 
23 
 
  I made it very snappy on the phone because I was afraid my parents would barge 
in on me right in the middle of it. They didn't, though. Mr. Antolini was very nice. He 
said I could come right over if I wanted to. I think I probably woke he and his wife up, 
because it took them a helluva long time to answer the phone. The first thing he asked me 
was if anything was wrong, and I said no. I said I'd flunked out of Pencey, though. I 
thought I might as well tell him. He said "Good God," when I said that. He had a good 
sense of humor and all. He told me to come right over if I felt like it. 
  He was about the best teacher I ever had, Mr. Antolini. He was a pretty young 
guy, not much older than my brother D.B., and you could kid around with him without 
losing your respect for him. He was the one that finally picked up that boy that jumped 
out the window I told you about, James Castle. Old Mr. Antolini felt his pulse and all, 
and then he took off his coat and put it over James Castle and carried him all the way 
over to the infirmary. He didn't even give a damn if his coat got all bloody. 
  When I got back to D.B.'s room, old Phoebe'd turned the radio on. This dance 
music was coming out. She'd turned it on low, though, so the maid wouldn't hear it. You 
should've seen her. She was sitting smack in the middle of the bed, outside the covers, 
with her legs folded like one of those Yogi guys. She was listening to the music. She kills 
me. 
  "C'mon," I said. "You feel like dancing?" I taught her how to dance and all when 
she was a tiny little kid. She's a very good dancer. I mean I just taught her a few things. 
She learned it mostly by herself. You can't teach somebody how to really dance. 
  "You have shoes on," she said.  
  "I'll take 'em off. C'mon." 
  She practically jumped off the bed, and then she waited while I took my shoes off, 
and then I danced with her for a while. She's really damn good. I don't like people that 
dance with little kids, because most of the time it looks terrible. I mean if you're out at a 
restaurant somewhere and you see some old guy take his little kid out on the dance floor. 
Usually they keep yanking the kid's dress up in the back by mistake, and the kid can't 
dance worth a damn anyway, and it looks terrible, but I don't do it out in public with 
Phoebe or anything. We just horse around in the house. It's different with her anyway, 
because she can dance. She can follow anything you do. I mean if you hold her in close 
as hell so that it doesn't matter that your legs are so much longer. She stays right with 
you. You can cross over, or do some corny dips, or even jitterbug a little, and she stays 
right with you. You can even tango, for God's sake. 
  We danced about four numbers. In between numbers she's funny as hell. She stays 
right in position. She won't even talk or anything. You both have to stay right in position 
and wait for the orchestra to start playing again. That kills me. You're not supposed to 
laugh or anything, either. 
  Anyway, we danced about four numbers, and then I turned off the radio. Old 
Phoebe jumped back in bed and got under the covers. "I'm improving, aren't I?"  she 
asked me. 
  "And how," I said. I sat down next to her on the bed again. I was sort of out of 
breath. I was smoking so damn much, I had hardly any wind. She wasn't even out of 
breath. 
  "Feel my forehead," she said all of a sudden. 
  "Why?" 
  "Feel it. Just feel it once." 
  I felt it. I didn't feel anything, though. 
  "Does it feel very feverish?" she said. 
  "No. Is it supposed to?" 
  "Yes--I'm making it. Feel it again." 
  I felt it again, and I still didn't feel anything, but I said, "I think it's starting to, 
now." I didn't want her to get a goddam inferiority complex. 
  She nodded. "I can make it go up to over the thermoneter." 
  "Thermometer. Who said so?" 
  "Alice Holmborg showed me how. You cross your legs and hold your breath and 
think of something very, very hot. A radiator or something. Then your whole forehead 
gets so hot you can burn somebody's hand." 
  That killed me. I pulled my hand away from her forehead, like I was in terrific 
danger. "Thanks for telling me," I said. 
  "Oh, I wouldn't've burned your hand. I'd've stopped before it got too--Shhh!" 
Then, quick as hell, she sat way the hell up in bed. 
  She scared hell out of me when she did that. "What's the matter?" I said. 
  "The front door!" she said in this loud whisper. "It's them!" 
  I quick jumped up and ran over and turned off the light over the desk. Then I 
jammed out my cigarette on my shoe and put it in my pocket. Then I fanned hell out of 
the air, to get the smoke out--I shouldn't even have been smoking, for God's sake. Then I 
grabbed my shoes and got in the closet and shut the door. Boy, my heart was beating like 
a bastard. 
  I heard my mother come in the room. 
  "Phoebe?" she said. "Now, stop that. I saw the light, young lady." 
  "Hello!" I heard old Phoebe say. "I couldn't sleep. Did you have a good time?" 
  "Marvelous," my mother said, but you could tell she didn't mean it. She doesn't 
enjoy herself much when she goes out. "Why are you awake, may I ask? Were you warm 
enough?" 
  "I was warm enough, I just couldn't sleep." 
  "Phoebe, have you been smoking a cigarette in here? Tell me the truth, please, 
young lady." 
  "What?" old Phoebe said. 
  "You heard me." 
  "I just lit one for one second. I just took one puff. Then I threw it out the 
window." 
  "Why, may I ask?" 
  "I couldn't sleep." 
  "I don't like that, Phoebe. I don't like that at all," my mother said. "Do you want 
another blanket?" 
  "No, thanks. G'night!" old Phoebe said. She was trying to get rid of her, you could 
tell. 
  "How was the movie?" my mother said.  
  "Excellent. Except Alice's mother. She kept leaning over and asking her if she felt 
grippy during the whole entire movie. We took a taxi home." 
  "Let me feel your forehead." 
  "I didn't catch anything. She didn't have anything. It was just her mother." 
  "Well. Go to sleep now. How was your dinner?" 
  "Lousy," Phoebe said. 
  "You heard what your father said about using that word. What was lousy about it? 
You had a lovely lamb chop. I walked all over Lexington Avenue just to--" 
  "The lamb chop was all right, but Charlene always breathes on me whenever she 
puts something down. She breathes all over the food and everything. She breathes on 
everything." 
  "Well. Go to sleep. Give Mother a kiss. Did you say your prayers?" 
  "I said them in the bathroom. G'night!" 
  "Good night. Go right to sleep now. I have a splitting headache," my mother said. 
She gets headaches quite frequently. She really does. 
  "Take a few aspirins," old Phoebe said. "Holden'll be home on Wednesday, won't 
he?" 
  "So far as I know. Get under there, now. Way down." 
  I heard my mother go out and close the door. I waited a couple of minutes. Then I 
came out of the closet. I bumped smack into old Phoebe when I did it, because it was so 
dark and she was out of bed and coming to tell me. "I hurt you?" I said. You had to 
whisper now, because they were both home. "I gotta get a move on," I said. I found the 
edge of the bed in the dark and sat down on it and started putting on my shoes. I was 
pretty nervous. I admit it. 
  "Don't go now," Phoebe whispered. "Wait'll they're asleep!" 
  "No. Now. Now's the best time," I said. "She'll be in the bathroom and Daddy'll 
turn on the news or something. Now's the best time." I could hardly tie my shoelaces, I 
was so damn nervous. Not that they would've killed me or anything if they'd caught me 
home, but it would've been very unpleasant and all. "Where the hell are ya?" I said to old 
Phoebe. It was so dark I couldn't see her. 
  "Here." She was standing right next to me. I didn't even see her. 
  "I got my damn bags at the station," I said. "Listen. You got any dough, Phoeb? 
I'm practically broke." 
  "Just my Christmas dough. For presents and all. I haven't done any shopping at all 
yet." 
  "Oh." I didn't want to take her Christmas dough. 
  "You want some?" she said. 
  "I don't want to take your Christmas dough." 
  "I can lend you some," she said. Then I heard her over at D.B.'s desk, opening a 
million drawers and feeling around with her hand. It was pitch-black, it was so dark in the 
room. "If you go away, you won't see me in the play," she said. Her voice sounded funny 
when she said it. 
  "Yes, I will. I won't go way before that. You think I wanna miss the play?" I said. 
"What I'll do, I'll probably stay at Mr. Antolini's house till maybe Tuesday night. Then I'll 
come home. If I get a chance, I'll phone ya." 
  "Here," old Phoebe said. She was trying to give me the dough, but she couldn't 
find my hand. 
  "Where?" 
  She put the dough in my hand. 
  "Hey, I don't need all this," I said. "Just give me two bucks, is all. No kidding--
Here." I tried to give it back to her, but she wouldn't take it. 
  "You can take it all. You can pay me back. Bring it to the play." 
  "How much is it, for God's sake?" 
  "Eight dollars and eighty-five cents. Sixty-five cents. I spent some." 
  Then, all of a sudden, I started to cry. I couldn't help it. I did it so nobody could 
hear me, but I did it. It scared hell out of old Phoebe when I started doing it, and she 
came over and tried to make me stop, but once you get started, you can't just stop on a 
goddam dime. I was still sitting on the edge of the bed when I did it, and she put her old 
arm around my neck, and I put my arm around her, too, but I still couldn't stop for a long 
time. I thought I was going to choke to death or something. Boy, I scared hell out of poor 
old Phoebe. The damn window was open and everything, and I could feel her shivering 
and all, because all she had on was her pajamas. I tried to make her get back in bed, but 
she wouldn't go. Finally I stopped. But it certainly took me a long, long time. Then I 
finished buttoning my coat and all. I told her I'd keep in touch with her. She told me I 
could sleep with her if I wanted to, but I said no, that I'd better beat it, that Mr. Antolini 
was waiting for me and all. Then I took my hunting hat out of my coat pocket and gave it 
to her. She likes those kind of crazy hats. She didn't want to take it, but I made her. I'll bet 
she slept with it on. She really likes those kind of hats. Then I told her again I'd give her a 
buzz if I got a chance, and then I left. 
  It was a helluva lot easier getting out of the house than it was getting in, for some 
reason. For one thing, I didn't give much of a damn any more if they caught me. I really 
didn't. I figured if they caught me, they caught me. I almost wished they did, in a way. 
  I walked all the way downstairs, instead of taking the elevator. I went down the 
back stairs. I nearly broke my neck on about ten million garbage pails, but I got out all 
right. The elevator boy didn't even see me. He probably still thinks I'm up at the 
Dicksteins'. 
 
 
24 
 
  Mr. and Mrs. Antolini had this very swanky apartment over on Sutton Place, with 
two steps that you go down to get in the living room, and a bar and all. I'd been there 
quite a few times, because after I left Elkton Hills Mr. Antoilni came up to our house for 
dinner quite frequently to find out how I was getting along. He wasn't married then. Then 
when he got married, I used to play tennis with he and Mrs. Antolini quite frequently, out 
at the West Side Tennis Club, in Forest Hills, Long Island. Mrs. Antolini, belonged there. 
She was lousy with dough. She was about sixty years older than Mr. Antolini, but they 
seemed to get along quite well. For one thing, they were both very intellectual, especially 
Mr. Antolini except that he was more witty than intellectual when you were with him, 
sort of like D.B. Mrs. Antolini was mostly serious. She had asthma pretty bad. They both 
read all D.B.'s stories--Mrs. Antolini, too--and when D.B. went to Hollywood, Mr. 
Antolini phoned him up and told him not to go. He went anyway, though. Mr. Antolini 
said that anybody that could write like D.B. had no business going out to Hollywood. 
That's exactly what I said, practically. 
  I would have walked down to their house, because I didn't want to spend any of 
Phoebe's Christmas dough that I didn't have to, but I felt funny when I got outside. Sort of 
dizzy. So I took a cab. I didn't want to, but I did. I had a helluva time even finding a cab. 
  Old Mr. Antolini answered the door when I rang the bell--after the elevator boy 
finally let me up, the bastard. He had on his bathrobe and slippers, and he had a highball 
in one hand. He was a pretty sophisticated guy, and he was a pretty heavy drinker. 
"Holden, m'boy!" he said. "My God, he's grown another twenty inches. Fine to see you." 
  "How are you, Mr. Antolini? How's Mrs. Antolini?" 
  "We're both just dandy. Let's have that coat." He took my coat off me and hung it 
up. "I expected to see a day-old infant in your arms. Nowhere to turn. Snowflakes in your 
eyelashes." He's a very witty guy sometimes. He turned around and yelled out to the 
kitchen, "Lillian! How's the coffee coming?" Lillian was Mrs. Antolini's first name. 
  "It's all ready," she yelled back. "Is that Holden? Hello, Holden!" 
  "Hello, Mrs. Antolini!" 
  You were always yelling when you were there. That's because the both of them 
were never in the same room at the same time. It was sort of funny. 
  "Sit down, Holden," Mr. Antolini said. You could tell he was a little oiled up. The 
room looked like they'd just had a party. Glasses were all over the place, and dishes with 
peanuts in them. "Excuse the appearance of the place," he said. "We've been entertaining 
some Buffalo friends of Mrs. Antolini's . . . Some buffaloes, as a matter of fact." 
  I laughed, and Mrs. Antolini yelled something in to me from the kitchen, but I 
couldn't hear her. "What'd she say?" I asked Mr. Antolini. 
  "She said not to look at her when she comes in. She just arose from the sack. 
Have a cigarette. Are you smoking now?" 
  "Thanks," I said. I took a cigarette from the box he offered me. "Just once in a 
while. I'm a moderate smoker." 
  "I'll bet you are," he said. He gave me a light from this big lighter off the table. 
"So. You and Pencey are no longer one," he said. He always said things that way. 
Sometimes it amused me a lot and sometimes it didn't. He sort of did it a little bit too 
much. I don't mean he wasn't witty or anything--he was--but sometimes it gets on your 
nerves when somebody's always saying things like "So you and Pencey are no longer 
one." D.B. does it too much sometimes, too. 
  "What was the trouble?" Mr. Antolini asked me. "How'd you do in English? I'll 
show you the door in short order if you flunked English, you little ace composition 
writer." 
  "Oh, I passed English all right. It was mostly literature, though. I only wrote about 
two compositions the whole term," I said. "I flunked Oral Expression, though. They had 
this course you had to take, Oral Expression. That I flunked." 
  "Why?" 
  "Oh, I don't know." I didn't feel much like going into It. I was still feeling sort of 
dizzy or something, and I had a helluva headache all of a sudden. I really did. But you 
could tell he was interested, so I told him a little bit about it. "It's this course where each 
boy in class has to get up in class and make a speech. You know. Spontaneous and all. 
And if the boy digresses at all, you're supposed to yell 'Digression!' at him as fast as you 
can. It just about drove me crazy. I got an F in it." 
  "Why?" 
  "Oh, I don't know. That digression business got on my nerves. I don't know. The 
trouble with me is, I like it when somebody digresses. It's more interesting and all." 
  "You don't care to have somebody stick to the point when he tells you 
something?" 
  "Oh, sure! I like somebody to stick to the point and all. But I don't like them to 
stick too much to the point. I don't know. I guess I don't like it when somebody sticks to 
the point all the time. The boys that got the best marks in Oral Expression were the ones 
that stuck to the point all the time--I admit it. But there was this one boy, Richard 
Kinsella. He didn't stick to the point too much, and they were always yelling 'Digression!' 
at him. It was terrible, because in the first place, he was a very nervous guy--I mean he 
was a very nervous guy--and his lips were always shaking whenever it was his time to 
make a speech, and you could hardly hear him if you were sitting way in the back of the 
room. When his lips sort of quit shaking a little bit, though, I liked his speeches better 
than anybody else's. He practically flunked the course, though, too. He got a D plus 
because they kept yelling 'Digression!' at him all the time. For instance, he made this 
speech about this farm his father bought in Vermont. They kept yelling 'Digression!' at 
him the whole time he was making it, and this teacher, Mr. Vinson, gave him an F on it 
because he hadn't told what kind of animals and vegetables and stuff grew on the farm 
and all. What he did was, Richard Kinsella, he'd start telling you all about that stuff--then 
all of a sudden he'd start telling you about this letter his mother got from his uncle, and 
how his uncle got polio and all when he was forty-two years old, and how he wouldn't let 
anybody come to see him in the hospital because he didn't want anybody to see him with 
a brace on. It didn't have much to do with the farm--I admit it--but it was nice. It's nice 
when somebody tells you about their uncle. Especially when they start out telling you 
about their father's farm and then all of a sudden get more interested in their uncle. I 
mean it's dirty to keep yelling 'Digression!' at him when he's all nice and excited. I don't 
know. It's hard to explain." I didn't feel too much like trying, either. For one thing, I had 
this terrific headache all of a sudden. I wished to God old Mrs. Antolini would come in 
with the coffee. That's something that annoys hell out of me--I mean if somebody says 
the coffee's all ready and it isn't. 
  "Holden. . . One short, faintly stuffy, pedagogical question. Don't you think there's 
a time and place for everything? Don't you think if someone starts out to tell you about 
his father's farm, he should stick to his guns, then get around to telling you about his 
uncle's brace? Or, if his uncle's brace is such a provocative subject, shouldn't he have 
selected it in the first place as his subject--not the farm?" 
  I didn't feel much like thinking and answering and all. I had a headache and I felt 
lousy. I even had sort of a stomach-ache, if you want to know the truth. 
  "Yes--I don't know. I guess he should. I mean I guess he should've picked his 
uncle as a subject, instead of the farm, if that interested him most. But what I mean is, 
lots of time you don't know what interests you most till you start talking about something 
that doesn't interest you most. I mean you can't help it sometimes. What I think is, you're 
supposed to leave somebody alone if he's at least being interesting and he's getting all 
excited about something. I like it when somebody gets excited about something. It's nice. 
You just didn't know this teacher, Mr. Vinson. He could drive you crazy sometimes, him 
and the goddam class. I mean he'd keep telling you to unify and simplify all the time. 
Some things you just can't do that to. I mean you can't hardly ever simplify and unify 
something just because somebody wants you to. You didn't know this guy, Mr. Vinson. I 
mean he was very intelligent and all, but you could tell he didn't have too much brains." 
  "Coffee, gentlemen, finally," Mrs. Antolini said. She came in carrying this tray 
with coffee and cakes and stuff on it. "Holden, don't you even peek at me. I'm a mess." 
  "Hello, Mrs. Antolini," I said. I started to get up and all, but Mr. Antolini got hold 
of my jacket and pulled me back down. Old Mrs. Antolini's hair was full of those iron 
curler jobs, and she didn't have any lipstick or anything on. She didn't look too gorgeous. 
She looked pretty old and all.  
  "I'll leave this right here. Just dive in, you two," she said. She put the tray down 
on the cigarette table, pushing all these glasses out of the way. "How's your mother, 
Holden?" 
  "She's fine, thanks. I haven't seen her too recently, but the last I--" 
  "Darling, if Holden needs anything, everything's in the linen closet. The top shelf. 
I'm going to bed. I'm exhausted," Mrs. Antolini said. She looked it, too. "Can you boys 
make up the couch by yourselves?" 
  "We'll take care of everything. You run along to bed," Mr. Antolini said. He gave 
Mrs. Antolini a kiss and she said good-by to me and went in the bedroom. They were 
always kissing each other a lot in public. 
  I had part of a cup of coffee and about half of some cake that was as hard as a 
rock. All old Mr. Antolini had was another highball, though. He makes them strong, too, 
you could tell. He may get to be an alcoholic if he doesn't watch his step. 
  "I had lunch with your dad a couple of weeks ago," he said all of a sudden. "Did 
you know that?" 
  "No, I didn't." 
  "You're aware, of course, that he's terribly concerned about you." 
  "I know it. I know he is," I said. 
  "Apparently before he phoned me he'd just had a long, rather harrowing letter 
from your latest headmaster, to the effect that you were making absolutely no effort at all. 
Cutting classes. Coming unprepared to all your classes. In general, being an all-around--" 
  "I didn't cut any classes. You weren't allowed to cut any. There were a couple of 
them I didn't attend once in a while, like that Oral Expression I told you about, but I 
didn't cut any." 
  I didn't feel at all like discussing it. The coffee made my stomach feel a little 
better, but I still had this awful headache. 
  Mr. Antolini lit another cigarette. He smoked like a fiend. Then he said, "Frankly, 
I don't know what the hell to say to you, Holden." 
  "I know. I'm very hard to talk to. I realize that." 
  "I have a feeling that you're riding for some kind of a terrible, terrible fall. But I 
don't honestly know what kind. . . Are you listening to me?" 
  "Yes." 
  You could tell he was trying to concentrate and all.  
  "It may be the kind where, at the age of thirty, you sit in some bar hating 
everybody who comes in looking as if he might have played football in college. Then 
again, you may pick up just enough education to hate people who say, 'It's a secret 
between he and I.' Or you may end up in some business office, throwing paper clips at the 
nearest stenographer. I just don't know. But do you know what I'm driving at, at all?" 
  "Yes. Sure," I said. I did, too. "But you're wrong about that hating business. I 
mean about hating football players and all. You really are. I don't hate too many guys. 
What I may do, I may hate them for a little while, like this guy Stradlater I knew at 
Pencey, and this other boy, Robert Ackley. I hated them once in a while--I admit it--but it 
doesn't last too long, is what I mean. After a while, if I didn't see them, if they didn't 
come in the room, or if I didn't see them in the dining room for a couple of meals, I sort 
of missed them. I mean I sort of missed them." 
  Mr. Antolini didn't say anything for a while. He got up and got another hunk of 
ice and put it in his drink, then he sat down again. You could tell he was thinking. I kept 
wishing, though, that he'd continue the conversation in the morning, instead of now, but 
he was hot. People are mostly hot to have a discussion when you're not. 
  "All right. Listen to me a minute now . . . I may not word this as memorably as I'd 
like to, but I'll write you a letter about it in a day or two. Then you can get it all straight. 
But listen now, anyway." He started concentrating again. Then he said, "This fall I think 
you're riding for--it's a special kind of fall, a horrible kind. The man falling isn't permitted 
to feel or hear himself hit bottom. He just keeps falling and falling. The whole 
arrangement's designed for men who, at some time or other in their lives, were looking 
for something their own environment couldn't supply them with. Or they thought their 
own environment couldn't supply them with. So they gave up looking. They gave it up 
before they ever really even got started. You follow me?" 
  "Yes, sir." 
  "Sure?" 
  "Yes." 
  He got up and poured some more booze in his glass. Then he sat down again. He 
didn't say anything for a long time.  
  "I don't want to scare you," he said, "but I can very clearly see you dying nobly, 
one way or another, for some highly unworthy cause." He gave me a funny look. "If I 
write something down for you, will you read it carefully? And keep it?" 
  "Yes. Sure," I said. I did, too. I still have the paper he gave me. 
  He went over to this desk on the other side of the room, and without sitting down 
wrote something on a piece of paper. Then he came back and sat down with the paper in 
his hand. "Oddly enough, this wasn't written by a practicing poet. It was written by a 
psychoanalyst named Wilhelm Stekel. Here's what he--Are you still with me?" 
  "Yes, sure I am." 
  "Here's what he said: 'The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly 
for a cause, while the mark of the mature man is that he wants to live humbly for one.'" 
  He leaned over and handed it to me. I read it right when he gave it to me, and then 
I thanked him and all and put it in my pocket. It was nice of him to go to all that trouble. 
It really was. The thing was, though, I didn't feel much like concentrating. Boy, I felt so 
damn tired all of a sudden. 
  You could tell he wasn't tired at all, though. He was pretty oiled up, for one thing. 
"I think that one of these days," he said, "you're going to have to find out where you want 
to go. And then you've got to start going there. But immediately. You can't afford to lose 
a minute. Not you." 
  I nodded, because he was looking right at me and all, but I wasn't too sure what he 
was talking about. I was pretty sure I knew, but I wasn't too positive at the time. I was too 
damn tired. 
  "And I hate to tell you," he said, "but I think that once you have a fair idea where 
you want to go, your first move will be to apply yourself in school. You'll have to. You're 
a student--whether the idea appeals to you or not. You're in love with knowledge. And I 
think you'll find, once you get past all the Mr. Vineses and their Oral Comp--" 
  "Mr. Vinsons," I said. He meant all the Mr. Vinsons, not all the Mr. Vineses. I 
shouldn't have interrupted him, though. 
  "All right--the Mr. Vinsons. Once you get past all the Mr. Vinsons, you're going 
to start getting closer and closer--that is, if you want to, and if you look for it and wait for 
it--to the kind of information that will be very, very dear to your heart. Among other 
things, you'll find that you're not the first person who was ever confused and frightened 
and even sickened by human behavior. You're by no means alone on that score, you'll be 
excited and stimulated to know. Many, many men have been just as troubled morally and 
spiritually as you are right now. Happily, some of them kept records of their troubles. 
You'll learn from them--if you want to. Just as someday, if you have something to offer, 
someone will learn something from you. It's a beautiful reciprocal arrangement. And it 
isn't education. It's history. It's poetry." He stopped and took a big drink out of his 
highball. Then he started again. Boy, he was really hot. I was glad I didn't try to stop him 
or anything. "I'm not trying to tell you," he said, "that only educated and scholarly men 
are able to contribute something valuable to the world. It's not so. But I do say that 
educated and scholarly men, if they're brilliant and creative to begin with--which, 
unfortunately, is rarely the case--tend to leave infinitely more valuable records behind 
them than men do who are merely brilliant and creative. They tend to express themselves 
more clearly, and they usually have a passion for following their thoughts through to the 
end. And--most important--nine times out of ten they have more humility than the 
unscholarly thinker. Do you follow me at all?" 
  "Yes, sir." 
  He didn't say anything again for quite a while. I don't know if you've ever done it, 
but it's sort of hard to sit around waiting for somebody to say something when they're 
thinking and all. It really is. I kept trying not to yawn. It wasn't that I was bored or 
anything--I wasn't--but I was so damn sleepy all of a sudden. 
  "Something else an academic education will do for you. If you go along with it 
any considerable distance, it'll begin to give you an idea what size mind you have. What 
it'll fit and, maybe, what it won't. After a while, you'll have an idea what kind of thoughts 
your particular size mind should be wearing. For one thing, it may save you an 
extraordinary amount of time trying on ideas that don't suit you, aren't becoming to you. 
You'll begin to know your true measurements and dress your mind accordingly." 
  Then, all of a sudden, I yawned. What a rude bastard, but I couldn't help it! 
  Mr. Antolini just laughed, though. "C'mon," he said, and got up. "We'll fix up the 
couch for you." 
  I followed him and he went over to this closet and tried to take down some sheets 
and blankets and stuff that was on the top shelf, but he couldn't do it with this highball 
glass in his hand. So he drank it and then put the glass down on the floor and then he took 
the stuff down. I helped him bring it over to the couch. We both made the bed together. 
He wasn't too hot at it. He didn't tuck anything in very tight. I didn't care, though. I 
could've slept standing up I was so tired. 
  "How're all your women?" 
  "They're okay." I was being a lousy conversationalist, but I didn't feel like it. 
  "How's Sally?" He knew old Sally Hayes. I introduced him once. 
  "She's all right. I had a date with her this afternoon." Boy, it seemed like twenty 
years ago! "We don't have too much in common any more." 
  "Helluva pretty girl. What about that other girl? The one you told me about, in 
Maine?" 
  "Oh--Jane Gallagher. She's all right. I'm probably gonna give her a buzz 
tomorrow." 
  We were all done making up the couch then. "It's all yours," Mr. Antolini said. "I 
don't know what the hell you're going to do with those legs of yours." 
  "That's all right. I'm used to short beds," I said. "Thanks a lot, sir. You and Mrs. 
Antolini really saved my life tonight."  
  "You know where the bathroom is. If there's anything you want, just holler. I'll be 
in the kitchen for a while--will the light bother you?" 
  "No--heck, no. Thanks a lot." 
  "All right. Good night, handsome."  
  "G'night, sir. Thanks a lot." 
  He went out in the kitchen and I went in the bathroom and got undressed and all. I 
couldn't brush my teeth because I didn't have any toothbrush with me. I didn't have any 
pajamas either and Mr. Antolini forgot to lend me some. So I just went back in the living 
room and turned off this little lamp next to the couch, and then I got in bed with just my 
shorts on. It was way too short for me, the couch, but I really could've slept standing up 
without batting an eyelash. I laid awake for just a couple of seconds thinking about all 
that stuff Mr. Antolini'd told me. About finding out the size of your mind and all. He was 
really a pretty smart guy. But I couldn't keep my goddam eyes open, and I fell asleep. 
  Then something happened. I don't even like to talk about it. 
  I woke up all of a sudden. I don't know what time it was or anything, but I woke 
up. I felt something on my head, some guy's hand. Boy, it really scared hell out of me. 
What it was, it was Mr. Antolini's hand. What he was doing was, he was sitting on the 
floor right next to the couch, in the dark and all, and he was sort of petting me or patting 
me on the goddam head. Boy, I'll bet I jumped about a thousand feet. 
  "What the hellya doing?" I said. 
  "Nothing! I'm simply sitting here, admiring--" 
  "What're ya doing, anyway?" I said over again. I didn't know what the hell to say-
-I mean I was embarrassed as hell. 
  "How 'bout keeping your voice down? I'm simply sitting here--" 
  "I have to go, anyway," I said--boy, was I nervous! I started putting on my damn 
pants in the dark. I could hardly get them on I was so damn nervous. I know more damn 
perverts, at schools and all, than anybody you ever met, and they're always being perverty 
when I'm around. 
  "You have to go where?" Mr. Antolini said. He was trying to act very goddam 
casual and cool and all, but he wasn't any too goddam cool. Take my word. 
  "I left my bags and all at the station. I think maybe I'd better go down and get 
them. I have all my stuff in them."  
  "They'll be there in the morning. Now, go back to bed. I'm going to bed myself. 
What's the matter with you?" 
  "Nothing's the matter, it's just that all my money and stuff's in one of my bags. I'll 
be right back. I'll get a cab and be right back," I said. Boy, I was falling all over myself in 
the dark. "The thing is, it isn't mine, the money. It's my mother's, and I--" 
  "Don't be ridiculous, Holden. Get back in that bed. I'm going to bed myself. The 
money will be there safe and sound in the morn--" 
  "No, no kidding. I gotta get going. I really do." I was damn near all dressed 
already, except that I couldn't find my tie. I couldn't remember where I'd put my tie. I put 
on my jacket and all without it. Old Mr. Antolini was sitting now in the big chair a little 
ways away from me, watching me. It was dark and all and I couldn't see him so hot, but I 
knew he was watching me, all right. He was still boozing, too. I could see his trusty 
highball glass in his hand. 
  "You're a very, very strange boy." 
  "I know it," I said. I didn't even look around much for my tie. So I went without it. 
"Good-by, sir," I said, "Thanks a lot. No kidding." 
  He kept walking right behind me when I went to the front door, and when I rang 
the elevator bell he stayed in the damn doorway. All he said was that business about my 
being a "very, very strange boy" again. Strange, my ass. Then he waited in the doorway 
and all till the goddam elevator came. I never waited so long for an elevator in my whole 
goddam life. I swear. 
  I didn't know what the hell to talk about while I was waiting for the elevator, and 
he kept standing there, so I said, "I'm gonna start reading some good books. I really am." 
I mean you had to say something. It was very embarrassing. 
  "You grab your bags and scoot right on back here again. I'll leave the door 
unlatched." 
  "Thanks a lot," I said. "G'by!" The elevator was finally there. I got in and went 
down. Boy, I was shaking like a madman. I was sweating, too. When something perverty 
like that happens, I start sweating like a bastard. That kind of stuff's happened to me 
about twenty times since I was a kid. I can't stand it. 
 
 
25 
 
  When I got outside, it was just getting light out. It  was pretty cold, too, but it felt 
good because I was sweating so much. 
  I didn't know where the hell to go. I didn't want to go to another hotel and spend 
all Phoebe's dough. So finally all I did was I walked over to Lexington and took the 
subway down to Grand Central. My bags were there and all, and I figured I'd sleep in that 
crazy waiting room where all the benches are. So that's what I did. It wasn't too bad for a 
while because there weren't many people around and I could stick my feet up. But I don't 
feel much like discussing it. It wasn't too nice. Don't ever try it. I mean it. It'll depress 
you. 
  I only slept till around nine o'clock because a million people started coming in the 
waiting room and I had to take my feet down. I can't sleep so hot if I have to keep my feet 
on the floor. So I sat up. I still had that headache. It was even worse. And I think I was 
more depressed than I ever was in my whole life. 
  I didn't want to, but I started thinking about old Mr. Antolini and I wondered what 
he'd tell Mrs. Antolini when she saw I hadn't slept there or anything. That part didn't 
worry me too much, though, because I knew Mr. Antolini was very smart and that he 
could make up something to tell her. He could tell her I'd gone home or something. That 
part didn't worry me much. But what did worry me was the part about how I'd woke up 
and found him patting me on the head and all. I mean I wondered if just maybe I was 
wrong about thinking be was making a flitty pass at ne. I wondered if maybe he just liked 
to pat guys on the head when they're asleep. I mean how can you tell about that stuff for 
sure? You can't. I even started wondering if maybe I should've got my bags and gone 
back to his house, the way I'd said I would. I mean I started thinking that even if he was a 
flit he certainly'd been very nice to me. I thought how he hadn't minded it when I'd called 
him up so late, and how he'd told me to come right over if I felt like it. And how he went 
to all that trouble giving me that advice about finding out the size of your mind and all, 
and how he was the only guy that'd even gone near that boy James Castle I told you about 
when he was dead. I thought about all that stuff. And the more I thought about it, the 
more depressed I got. I mean I started thinking maybe I should've gone back to his house. 
Maybe he was only patting my head just for the hell of it. The more I thought about it, 
though, the more depressed and screwed up about it I got. What made it even worse, my 
eyes were sore as hell. They felt sore and burny from not getting too much sleep. Besides 
that, I was getting sort of a cold, and I didn't even have a goddam handkerchief with me. I 
had some in my suitcase, but I didn't feel like taking it out of that strong box and opening 
it up right in public and all. 
  There was this magazine that somebody'd left on the bench next to me, so I 
started reading it, thinking it'd make me stop thinking about Mr. Antolini and a million 
other things for at least a little while. But this damn article I started reading made me feel 
almost worse. It was all about hormones. It described how you should look, your face and 
eyes and all, if your hormones were in good shape, and I didn't look that way at all. I 
looked exactly like the guy in the article with lousy hormones. So I started getting 
worried about my hormones. Then I read this other article about how you can tell if you 
have cancer or not. It said if you had any sores in your mouth that didn't heal pretty 
quickly, it was a sign that you probably had cancer. I'd had this sore on the inside of my 
lip for about two weeks. So figured I was getting cancer. That magazine was some little 
cheerer upper. I finally quit reading it and went outside for a walk. I figured I'd be dead in 
a couple of months because I had cancer. I really did. I was even positive I would be. It 
certainly didn't make me feel too gorgeous. It'sort of looked like it was going to rain, but I 
went for this walk anyway. For one thing, I figured I ought to get some breakfast. I wasn't 
at all hungry, but I figured I ought to at least eat something. I mean at least get something 
with some vitamins in it. So I started walking way over east, where the pretty cheap 
restaurants are, because I didn't want to spend a lot of dough. 
  While I was walking, I passed these two guys that were unloading this big 
Christmas tree off a truck. One guy kept saying to the other guy, "Hold the sonuvabitch 
up! Hold it up, for Chrissake!" It certainly was a gorgeous way to talk about a Christmas 
tree. It was sort of funny, though, in an awful way, and I started to sort of laugh. It was 
about the worst thing I could've done, because the minute I started to laugh I thought I 
was going to vomit. I really did. I even started to, but it went away. I don't know why. I 
mean I hadn't eaten anything unsanitary or like that and usually I have quite a strong 
stomach. Anyway, I got over it, and I figured I'd feel better if I had something to eat. So I 
went in this very cheap-looking restaurant and had doughnuts and coffee. Only, I didn't 
eat the doughnuts. I couldn't swallow them too well. The thing is, if you get very 
depressed about something, it's hard as hell to swallow. The waiter was very nice, 
though. He took them back without charging me. I just drank the coffee. Then I left and 
started walking over toward Fifth Avenue. 
  It was Monday and all, and pretty near Christmas, and all the stores were open. So 
it wasn't too bad walking on Fifth Avenue. It was fairly Christmasy. All those scraggy-
looking Santa Clauses were standing on corners ringing those bells, and the Salvation 
Army girls, the ones that don't wear any lipstick or anything, were tinging bells too. I sort 
of kept looking around for those two nuns I'd met at breakfast the day before, but I didn't 
see them. I knew I wouldn't, because they'd told me they'd come to New York to be 
schoolteachers, but I kept looking for them anyway. Anyway, it was pretty Christmasy all 
of a sudden. A million little kids were downtown with their mothers, getting on and off 
buses and coming in and out of stores. I wished old Phoebe was around. She's not little 
enough any more to go stark staring mad in the toy department, but she enjoys horsing 
around and looking at the people. The Christmas before last I took her downtown 
shopping with me. We had a helluva time. I think it was in Bloomingdale's. We went in 
the shoe department and we pretended she--old Phoebe-- wanted to get a pair of those 
very high storm shoes, the kind that have about a million holes to lace up. We had the 
poor salesman guy going crazy. Old Phoebe tried on about twenty pairs, and each time 
the poor guy had to lace one shoe all the way up. It was a dirty trick, but it killed old 
Phoebe. We finally bought a pair of moccasins and charged them. The salesman was very 
nice about it. I think he knew we were horsing around, because old Phoebe always starts 
giggling. 
  Anyway, I kept walking and walking up Fifth Avenue, without any tie on or 
anything. Then all of a sudden, something very spooky started happening. Every time I 
came to the end of a block and stepped off the goddam curb, I had this feeling that I'd 
never get to the other side of the street. I thought I'd just go down, down, down, and 
nobody'd ever see me again. Boy, did it scare me. You can't imagine. I started sweating 
like a bastard--my whole shirt and underwear and everything. Then I started doing 
something else.  Every time I'd get to the end of a block I'd make believe I was talking to 
my brother Allie. I'd say to him, "Allie, don't let me disappear. Allie, don't let me 
disappear. Allie, don't let me disappear. Please, Allie." And then when I'd reach the other 
side of the street without disappearing, I'd thank him. Then it would start all over again as 
soon as I got to the next corner. But I kept going and all. I was sort of afraid to stop, I 
think--I don't remember, to tell you the truth. I know I didn't stop till I was way up in the 
Sixties, past the zoo and all. Then I sat down on this bench. I could hardly get my breath, 
and I was still sweating like a bastard. I sat there, I guess, for about an hour. Finally, what 
I decided I'd do, I decided I'd go away. I decided I'd never go home again and I'd never 
go away to another school again. I decided I'd just see old Phoebe and sort of say good-
by to her and all, and give her back her Christmas dough, and then I'd start hitchhiking 
my way out West. What I'd do, I figured, I'd go down to the Holland Tunnel and bum a 
ride, and then I'd bum another one, and another one, and another one, and in a few days 
I'd be somewhere out West where it was very pretty and sunny and where nobody'd know 
me and I'd get a job. I figured I could get a job at a filling station somewhere, putting gas 
and oil in people's cars. I didn't care what kind of job it was, though. Just so people didn't 
know me and I didn't know anybody. I thought what I'd do was, I'd pretend I was one of 
those deaf-mutes. That way I wouldn't have to have any goddam stupid useless 
conversations with anybody. If anybody wanted to tell me something, they'd have to 
write it on a piece of paper and shove it over to me. They'd get bored as hell doing that 
after a while, and then I'd be through with having conversations for the rest of my life. 
Everybody'd think I was just a poor deaf-mute bastard and they'd leave me alone. They'd 
let me put gas and oil in their stupid cars, and they'd pay me a salary and all for it, and I'd 
build me a little cabin somewhere with the dough I made and live there for the rest of my 
life. I'd build it right near the woods, but not right in them, because I'd want it to be sunny 
as hell all the time. I'd cook all my own food, and later on, if I wanted to get married or 
something, I'd meet this beautiful girl that was also a deaf-mute and we'd get married. 
She'd come and live in my cabin with me, and if she wanted to say anything to me, she'd 
have to write it on a goddam piece of paper, like everybody else. If we had any children, 
we'd hide them somewhere. We could buy them a lot of books and teach them how to 
read and write by ourselves. 
  I got excited as hell thinking about it. I really did. I knew the part about 
pretending I was a deaf-mute was crazy, but I liked thinking about it anyway. But I really 
decided to go out West and all. All I wanted to do first was say good-by to old Phoebe. 
So all of a sudden, I ran like a madman across the street--I damn near got killed doing it, 
if you want to know the truth--and went in this stationery store and bought a pad and 
pencil. I figured I'd write her a note telling her where to meet me so I could say good-by 
to her and give her back her Christmas dough, and then I'd take the note up to her school 
and get somebody in the principal's office to give it to her. But I just put the pad and 
pencil in my pocket and started walking fast as hell up to her school--I was too excited to 
write the note right in the stationery store. I walked fast because I wanted her to get the 
note before she went home for lunch, and I didn't have any too much time. 
  I knew where her school was, naturally, because I went there myself when I was a 
kid. When I got there, it felt funny. I wasn't sure I'd remember what it was like inside, but 
I did. It was exactly the same as it was when I went there. They had that same big yard 
inside, that was always sort of dark, with those cages around the light bulbs so they 
wouldn't break if they got hit with a ball. They had those same white circles painted all 
over the floor, for games and stuff. And those same old basketball rings without any nets-
-just the backboards and the rings. 
  Nobody was around at all, probably because it wasn't recess period, and it wasn't 
lunchtime yet. All I saw was one little kid, a colored kid, on his way to the bathroom. He 
had one of those wooden passes sticking out of his hip pocket, the same way we used to 
have, to show he had permission and all to go to the bathroom. 
  I was still sweating, but not so bad any more. I went over to the stairs and sat 
down on the first step and took out the pad and pencil I'd bought. The stairs had the same 
smell they used to have when I went there. Like somebody'd just taken a leak on them. 
School stairs always smell like that. Anyway, I sat there and wrote this note: 
 
  DEAR PHOEBE, 
 
    I can't wait around till Wednesday any more so I will 
  probably hitch hike out west this afternoon. Meet me at the   
  Museum of art near the door at quarter past 12 if you can and I 
  will give you your Christmas dough back. I didn't spend much. 
 
              Love, 
              HOLDEN 
 
 
  Her school was practically right near the museum, and she had to pass it on her 
way home for lunch anyway, so I knew she could meet me all right. 
  Then I started walking up the stairs to the principal's office so I could give the 
note to somebody that would bring it to her in her classroom. I folded it about ten times 
so nobody'd open it. You can't trust anybody in a goddam school. But I knew they'd give 
it to her if I was her brother and all. 
  While I was walking up the stairs, though, all of a sudden I thought I was going to 
puke again. Only, I didn't. I sat down for a second, and then I felt better. But while I was 
sitting down, I saw something that drove me crazy. Somebody'd written "Fuck you" on 
the wall. It drove me damn near crazy. I thought how Phoebe and all the other little kids 
would see it, and how they'd wonder what the hell it meant, and then finally some dirty 
kid would tell them--all cockeyed, naturally--what it meant, and how they'd all think 
about it and maybe even worry about it for a couple of days. I kept wanting to kill 
whoever'd written it. I figured it was some perverty bum that'd sneaked in the school late 
at night to take a leak or something and then wrote it on the wall. I kept picturing myself 
catching him at it, and how I'd smash his head on the stone steps till he was good and 
goddam dead and bloody. But I knew, too, I wouldn't have the guts to do it. I knew that. 
That made me even more depressed. I hardly even had the guts to rub it off the wall with 
my hand, if you want to know the truth. I was afraid some teacher would catch me 
rubbing it off and would think I'd written it. But I rubbed it out anyway, finally. Then I 
went on up to the principal's office. 
  The principal didn't seem to be around, but some old lady around a hundred years 
old was sitting at a typewriter. I told her I was Phoebe Caulfield's brother, in 4B-1, and I 
asked her to please give Phoebe the note. I said it was very important because my mother 
was sick and wouldn't have lunch ready for Phoebe and that she'd have to meet me and 
have lunch in a drugstore. She was very nice about it, the old lady. She took the note off 
me and called some other lady, from the next office, and the other lady went to give it to 
Phoebe. Then the old lady that was around a hundred years old and I shot the breeze for a 
while, She was pretty nice, and I told her how I'd gone there to school, too, and my 
brothers. She asked me where I went to school now, and I told her Pencey, and she said 
Pencey was a very good school. Even if I'd wanted to, I wouldn't have had the strength to 
straighten her out. Besides, if she thought Pencey was a very good school, let her think it. 
You hate to tell new stuff to somebody around a hundred years old. They don't like to 
hear it. Then, after a while, I left. It was funny. She yelled "Good luck!" at me the same 
way old Spencer did when I left Pencey. God, how I hate it when somebody yells "Good 
luck!" at me when I'm leaving somewhere. It's depressing. 
  I went down by a different staircase, and I saw another "Fuck you" on the wall. I 
tried to rub it off with my hand again, but this one was scratched on, with a knife or 
something. It wouldn't come off. It's hopeless, anyway. If you had a million years to do it 
in, you couldn't rub out even half the "Fuck you" signs in the world. It's impossible. 
  I looked at the clock in the recess yard, and it was only twenty to twelve, so I had 
quite a lot of time to kill before I met old Phoebe. But I just walked over to the museum 
anyway. There wasn't anyplace else to go. I thought maybe I might stop in a phone booth 
and give old Jane Gallagher a buzz before I started bumming my way west, but I wasn't 
in the mood. For one thing, I wasn't even sure she was home for vacation yet. So I just 
went over to the museum, and hung around. 
  While I was waiting around for Phoebe in the museum, right inside the doors and 
all, these two little kids came up to me and asked me if I knew where the mummies were. 
The one little kid, the one that asked me, had his pants open. I told him about it. So he 
buttoned them up right where he was standing talking to me--he didn't even bother to go 
behind a post or anything. He killed me. I would've laughed, but I was afraid I'd feel like 
vomiting again, so I didn't. "Where're the mummies, fella?" the kid said again. "Ya 
know?" 
  I horsed around with the two of them a little bit. "The mummies? What're they?" I 
asked the one kid. 
  "You know. The mummies--them dead guys. That get buried in them toons and 
all." 
  Toons. That killed me. He meant tombs. 
  "How come you two guys aren't in school?" I said.  
  "No school t'day," the kid that did all the talking said. He was lying, sure as I'm 
alive, the little bastard. I didn't have anything to do, though, till old Phoebe showed up, so 
I helped them find the place where the mummies were. Boy, I used to know exactly 
where they were, but I hadn't been in that museum in years. 
  "You two guys so interested in mummies?" I said. 
  "Yeah." 
  "Can't your friend talk?" I said. 
  "He ain't my friend. He's my brudda." 
  "Can't he talk?" I looked at the one that wasn't doing any talking. "Can't you talk 
at all?" I asked him. 
  "Yeah," he said. "I don't feel like it." 
  Finally we found the place where the mummies were, and we went in.  
  "You know how the Egyptians buried their dead?" I asked the one kid. 
  "Naa." 
  "Well, you should. It's very interesting. They wrapped their faces up in these 
cloths that were treated with some secret chemical. That way they could be buried in their 
tombs for thousands of years and their faces wouldn't rot or anything. Nobody knows 
how to do it except the Egyptians. Even modern science." 
  To get to where the mummies were, you had to go down this very narrow sort of 
hall with stones on the side that they'd taken right out of this Pharaoh's tomb and all. It 
was pretty spooky, and you could tell the two hot-shots I was with weren't enjoying it too 
much. They stuck close as hell to me, and the one that didn't talk at all practically was 
holding onto my sleeve. "Let's go," he said to his brother. "I seen 'em awreddy. C'mon, 
hey." He turned around and beat it. 
  "He's got a yella streak a mile wide," the other one said. "So long!" He beat it too. 
  I was the only one left in the tomb then. I sort of liked it, in a way. It was so nice 
and peaceful. Then, all of a sudden, you'd never guess what I saw on the wall. Another 
"Fuck you." It was written with a red crayon or something, right under the glass part of 
the wall, under the stones. 
  That's the whole trouble. You can't ever find a place that's nice and peaceful, 
because there isn't any. You may think there is, but once you get there, when you're not 
looking, somebody'll sneak up and write "Fuck you" right under your nose. Try it 
sometime. I think, even, if I ever die, and they stick me in a cemetery, and I have a 
tombstone and all, it'll say "Holden Caulfield" on it, and then what year I was born and 
what year I died, and then right under that it'll say "Fuck you." I'm positive, in fact. 
  After I came out of the place where the mummies were, I had to go to the 
bathroom. I sort of had diarrhea, if you want to know the truth. I didn't mind the diarrhea 
part too much, but something else happened. When I was coming out of the can, right 
before I got to the door, I sort of passed out. I was lucky, though. I mean I could've killed 
myself when I hit the floor, but all I did was sort of land on my side. it was a funny thing, 
though. I felt better after I passed out. I really did. My arm sort of hurt, from where I fell, 
but I didn't feel so damn dizzy any more. 
  It was about ten after twelve or so then, and so I went back and stood by the door 
and waited for old Phoebe. I thought how it might be the last time I'd ever see her again. 
Any of my relatives, I mean. I figured I'd probably see them again, but not for years. I 
might come home when I was about thirty-five. I figured, in case somebody got sick and 
wanted to see me before they died, but that would be the only reason I'd leave my cabin 
and come back. I even started picturing how it would be when I came back. I knew my 
mother'd get nervous as hell and start to cry and beg me to stay home and not go back to 
my cabin, but I'd go anyway. I'd be casual as hell. I'd make her calm down, and then I'd 
go over to the other side of the living room and take out this cigarette case and light a 
cigarette, cool as all hell. I'd ask them all to visit me sometime if they wanted to, but I 
wouldn't insist or anything. What I'd do, I'd let old Phoebe come out and visit me in the 
summertime and on Christmas vacation and Easter vacation. And I'd let D.B. come out 
and visit me for a while if he wanted a nice, quiet place for his writing, but he couldn't 
write any movies in my cabin, only stories and books. I'd have this rule that nobody could 
do anything phony when they visited me. If anybody tried to do anything phony, they 
couldn't stay. 
  All of a sudden I looked at the clock in the checkroom and it was twenty-five of 
one. I began to get scared that maybe that old lady in the school had told that other lady 
not to give old Phoebe my message. I began to get scared that maybe she'd told her to 
burn it or something. It really scared hell out of me. I really wanted to see old Phoebe 
before I hit the road. I mean I had her Christmas dough and all. 
  Finally, I saw her. I saw her through the glass part of the door. The reason I saw 
her, she had my crazy hunting hat on--you could see that hat about ten miles away. 
  I went out the doors and started down these stone stairs to meet her. The thing I 
couldn't understand, she had this big suitcase with her. She was just coming across Fifth 
Avenue, and she was dragging this goddam big suitcase with her. She could hardly drag 
it. When I got up closer, I saw it was my old suitcase, the one I used to use when I was at 
Whooton. I couldn't figure out what the hell she was doing with it. "Hi," she said when 
she got up close. She was all out of breath from that crazy suitcase. 
  "I thought maybe you weren't coming," I said. "What the hell's in that bag? I don't 
need anything. I'm just going the way I am. I'm not even taking the bags I got at the 
station. What the hellya got in there?" 
  She put the suitcase down. "My clothes," she said. "I'm going with you. Can I? 
Okay?"  
  "What?" I said. I almost fell over when she said that. I swear to God I did. I got 
sort of dizzy and I thought I was going to pass out or something again. 
  "I took them down the back elevator so Charlene wouldn't see me. It isn't heavy. 
All I have in it is two dresses and my moccasins and my underwear and socks and some 
other things. Feel it. It isn't heavy. Feel it once. . . Can't I go with you? Holden? Can't I? 
Please." 
  "No. Shut up." 
  I thought I was going to pass out cold. I mean I didn't mean to tell her to shut up 
and all, but I thought I was going to pass out again. 
  "Why can't I? Please, Holden! I won't do anything-- I'll just go with you, that's all! 
I won't even take my clothes with me if you don't want me to--I'll just take my--" 
  "You can't take anything. Because you're not going. I'm going alone. So shut up." 
  "Please, Holden. Please let me go. I'll be very, very, very--You won't even--" 
  "You're not going. Now, shut up! Gimme that bag," I said. I took the bag off her. I 
was almost all set to hit her, I thought I was going to smack her for a second. I really did. 
  She started to cry. 
  "I thought you were supposed to be in a play at school and all I thought you were 
supposed to be Benedict Arnold in that play and all," I said. I said it very nasty. 
"Whuddaya want to do? Not be in the play, for God's sake?" That made her cry even 
harder. I was glad. All of a sudden I wanted her to cry till her eyes practically dropped 
out. I almost hated her. I think I hated her most because she wouldn't be in that play any 
more if she went away with me. 
  "Come on," I said. I started up the steps to the museum again. I figured what I'd 
do was, I'd check the crazy suitcase she'd brought in the checkroom, andy then she could 
get it again at three o'clock, after school. I knew she couldn't take it back to school with 
her. "Come on, now," I said. 
  She didn't go up the steps with me, though. She wouldn't come with me. I went up 
anyway, though, and brought the bag in the checkroom and checked it, and then I came 
down again. She was still standing there on the sidewalk, but she turned her back on me 
when I came up to her. She can do that. She can turn her back on you when she feels like 
it. "I'm not going away anywhere. I changed my mind. So stop crying, and shut up," I 
said. The funny part was, she wasn't even crying when I said that. I said it anyway, 
though, "C'mon, now. I'll walk you back to school. C'mon, now. You'll be late." 
  She wouldn't answer me or anything. I sort of tried to get hold of her old hand, but 
she wouldn't let me. She kept turning around on me. 
  "Didja have your lunch? Ya had your lunch yet?" I asked her. 
  She wouldn't answer me. All she did was, she took off my red hunting hat--the 
one I gave her--and practically chucked it right in my face. Then she turned her back on 
me again. It nearly killed me, but I didn't say anything. I just picked it up and stuck it in 
my coat pocket. 
  "Come on, hey. I'll walk you back to school," I said. 
  "I'm not going back to school." 
  I didn't know what to say when she said that. I just stood there for a couple of 
minutes. 
  "You have to go back to school. You want to be in that play, don't you? You want 
to be Benedict Arnold, don't you?" 
  "No." 
  "Sure you do. Certainly you do. C'mon, now, let's go," I said. "In the first place, 
I'm not going away anywhere, I told you. I'm going home. I'm going home as soon as you 
go back to school. First I'm gonna go down to the station and get my bags, and then I'm 
gonna go straight--" 
  "I said I'm not going back to school. You can do what you want to do, but I'm not 
going back to chool," she said. "So shut up." It was the first time she ever told me to shut 
up. It sounded terrible. God, it sounded terrible. It sounded worse than swearing. She still 
wouldn't look at me either, and every time I sort of put my hand on her shoulder or 
something, she wouldn't let me. 
  "Listen, do you want to go for a walk?" I asked her. "Do you want to take a walk 
down to the zoo? If I let you not go back to school this afternoon and go for walk, will 
you cut out this crazy stuff?" 
  She wouldn't answer me, so I said it over again. "If I let you skip school this 
afternoon and go for a little walk, will you cut out the crazy stuff? Will you go back to 
school tomorrow like a good girl?" 
  "I may and I may not," she said. Then she ran right the hell across the street, 
without even looking to see if any cars were coming. She's a madman sometimes.  
  I didn't follow her, though. I knew she'd follow me, so I started walking 
downtown toward the zoo, on the park side of the street, and she started walking 
downtown on the other goddam side of the street, She wouldn't look over at me at all, but 
I could tell she was probably watching me out of the corner of her crazy eye to see where 
I was going and all. Anyway, we kept walking that way all the way to the zoo. The only 
thing that bothered me was when a double-decker bus came along because then I couldn't 
see across the street and I couldn't see where the hell she was. But when we got to the 
zoo, I yelled over to her, "Phoebe! I'm going in the zoo! C'mon, now!" She wouldn't look 
at me, but I could tell she heard me, and when I started down the steps to the zoo I turned 
around and saw she was crossing the street and following me and all. 
  There weren't too many people in the zoo because it was sort of a lousy day, but 
there were a few around the sea lions' swimming pool and all. I started to go by but old 
Phoebe stopped and made out she was watching the sea lions getting fed--a guy was 
throwing fish at them--so I went back. I figured it was a good chance to catch up with her 
and all. I went up and sort of stood behind her and sort of put my hands on her shoulders, 
but she bent her knees and slid out from me--she can certainly be very snotty when she 
wants to. She kept standing there while the sea lions were getting fed and I stood right 
behind her. I didn't put my hands on her shoulders again or anything because if I had she 
really would've beat it on me. Kids are funny. You have to watch what you're doing. 
  She wouldn't walk right next to me when we left the sea lions, but she didn't walk 
too far away. She sort of walked on one side of the sidewalk and I walked on the other 
side. It wasn't too gorgeous, but it was better than having her walk about a mile away 
from me, like before. We went up and watched the bears, on that little hill, for a while, 
but there wasn't much to watch. Only one of the bears was out, the polar bear. The other 
one, the brown one, was in his goddam cave and wouldn't come out. All you could see 
was his rear end. There was a little kid standing next to me, with a cowboy hat on 
practically over his ears, and he kept telling his father, "Make him come out, Daddy. 
Make him come out." I looked at old Phoebe, but she wouldn't laugh. You know kids 
when they're sore at you. They won't laugh or anything. 
  After we left the bears, we left the zoo and crossed over this little street in the 
park, and then we went through one of those little tunnels that always smell from 
somebody's taking a leak. It was on the way to the carrousel. Old Phoebe still wouldn't 
talk to me or anything, but she was sort of walking next to me now. I took a hold of the 
belt at the back of her coat, just for the hell of it, but she wouldn't let me. She said, "Keep 
your hands to yourself, if you don't mind." She was still sore at me. But not as sore as she 
was before. Anyway, we kept getting closer and closer to the carrousel and you could 
start to hear that nutty music it always plays. It was playing "Oh, Marie!" It played that 
same song about fifty years ago when I was a little kid. That's one nice thing about 
carrousels, they always play the same songs. 
  "I thought the carrousel was closed in the wintertime," old Phoebe said. It was the 
first time she practically said anything. She probably forgot she was supposed to be sore 
at me. 
  "Maybe because it's around Christmas," I said. 
  She didn't say anything when I said that. She probably remembered she was 
supposed to be sore at me. 
  "Do you want to go for a ride on it?" I said. I knew she probably did. When she 
was a tiny little kid, and Allie and D.B. and I used to go to the park with her, she was 
mad about the carrousel. You couldn't get her off the goddam thing. 
  "I'm too big." she said. I thought she wasn't going to answer me, but she did. 
  "No, you're not. Go on. I'll wait for ya. Go on," I said. We were right there then. 
There were a few kids riding on it, mostly very little kids, and a few parents were waiting 
around outside, sitting on the benches and all. What I did was, I went up to the window 
where they sell the tickets and bought old Phoebe a ticket. Then I gave it to her. She was 
standing right next to me. "Here," I said. "Wait a second--take the rest of your dough, 
too." I started giving her the rest of the dough she'd lent me. 
  "You keep it. Keep it for me," she said. Then she said right afterward--"Please." 
  That's depressing, when somebody says "please" to you. I mean if it's Phoebe or 
somebody. That depressed the hell out of me. But I put the dough back in my pocket. 
  "Aren't you gonna ride, too?" she asked me. She was looking at me sort of funny. 
You could tell she wasn't  too sore at me any more. 
  "Maybe I will the next time. I'll watch ya," I said.  "Got your ticket?" 
  "Yes." 
  "Go ahead, then--I'll be on this bench right over here. I'll watch ya." I went over 
and sat down on this bench, and she went and got on the carrousel. She walked all around 
it. I mean she walked once all the way around it. Then she sat down on this big, brown, 
beat-up-looking old horse. Then the carrousel started, and I watched her go around and 
around. There were only about five or six other kids on the ride, and the song the 
carrousel was playing was "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes." It was playing it very jazzy and 
funny. All the kids kept trying to grab for the gold ring, and so was old Phoebe, and I was 
sort of afraid she'd fall off the goddam horse, but I didn't say anything or do anything. 
The thing with kids is, if they want to grab the gold ring, you have to let them do it, and 
not say anything. If they fall off they fall off, but it's bad if you say anything to them. 
  When the ride was over she got off her horse and came over to me. "You ride 
once, too, this time," she said. 
  "No, I'll just watch ya. I think I'll just watch," I said. I gave her some more of her 
dough. "Here. Get some more tickets." 
  She took the dough off me. "I'm not mad at you any more," she said. 
  "I know. Hurry up--the thing's gonna start again."  
  Then all of a sudden she gave me a kiss. Then she held her hand out, and said, 
"It's raining. It's starting to rain." 
  "I know." 
  Then what she did--it damn near killed me--she reached in my coat pocket and 
took out my red hunting hat and put it on my head. 
  "Don't you want it?" I said. 
  "You can wear it a while." 
  "Okay. Hurry up, though, now. You're gonna miss your ride. You won't get your 
own horse or anything." 
  She kept hanging around, though. 
  "Did you mean it what you said? You really aren't going away anywhere? Are 
you really going home afterwards?" she asked me. 
  "Yeah," I said. I meant it, too. I wasn't lying to her. I really did go home 
afterwards. "Hurry up, now," I said. "The thing's starting." 
  She ran and bought her ticket and got back on the goddam carrousel just in time. 
Then she walked all the way around it till she got her own horse back. Then she got on it. 
She waved to me and I waved back. 
  Boy, it began to rain like a bastard. In buckets, I swear to God. All the parents and 
mothers and everybody went over and stood right under the roof of the carrousel, so they 
wouldn't get soaked to the skin or anything, but I stuck around on the bench for quite a 
while. I got pretty soaking wet, especially my neck and my pants. My hunting hat really 
gave me quite a lot of protection, in a way; but I got soaked anyway. I didn't care, though. 
I felt so damn happy all of sudden, the way old Phoebe kept going around and around. I 
was damn near bawling, I felt so damn happy, if you want to know the truth. I don't know 
why. It was just that she looked so damn nice, the way she kept going around and around, 
in her blue coat  and all. God, I wish you could've been there. 
 
 
26 
 
  That's all I'm going to tell about. I could probably tell you what I did after I went 
home, and how I got sick and all, and what school I'm supposed to go to next fall, after I 
get out of here, but I don't feel like it. I really don't. That stuff doesn't interest me too 
much right now. 
  A lot of people, especially this one psychoanalyst guy they have here, keeps 
asking me if I'm going apply myself when I go back to school next September. It's such a 
stupid question, in my opinion. I mean how do you know what you're going to do till you 
do it? The answer is, you don't. I think I am, but how do I know? I swear it's a stupid 
question. 
  D.B. isn't as bad as the rest of them, but he keeps asking me a lot of questions, 
too. He drove over last Saturday with this English babe that's in this new picture he's 
writing. She was pretty affected, but very good-looking. Anyway, one time when she 
went to the ladies' room way the hell down in the other wing D.B. asked me what I 
thought about all this stuff I just finished telling you about. I didn't know what the hell to 
say. If you want to know the truth, I don't know what I think about it. I'm sorry I told so 
many people about it. About all I know is, I sort of miss everybody I told about. Even old 
Stradlater and Ackley, for instance. I think I even miss that goddam Maurice. It's funny. 
Don't ever tell anybody anything. If you do, you start missing everybody. 
 
 
 
 
 
 